
                                            The Chinese smartphone maker revealed a number of world firsts during the launch of the products in South Africa.
                                         CAPE TOWN - The much-anticipated Huawei Mate 10 Pro and Porsche design Huawei Mate 10 devices have officially arrived in South Africa.  Huawei South Africa showcased the devices at the Bay Hotel in Cape Town on Monday evening. The Chinese smartphone maker revealed a number of “world firsts” during the launch and says it’s achieved second place in the South African Customer Satisfaction Index. “In 2016, we fell in the category of ‘other’. Within one year, we’re at second place,” product marketing director at Huawei SA, Akram Mohammed, said. Likun Zhao, the general manager for Huawei Consumer Business Group SA, said they’ve brought their two “premium phones” to the country to meet the mobile needs of tech-savvy South African consumers. Here are some key features for both devices: CAMERA Huawei has partnered with Leica to bring the new Leica Dual Lens with f/1.6 aperture. Both phones have a dual 20MP and 12MP camera on the back, so you’ll be able to take better low-light pictures. The devices also have an 8MP front-facing camera.  You’ll be able to take shallow depth-of-field pictures, crystal clear low-light photographs and blur-free shots of objects on the move. The Huawei Mate 10 is also able to identify different types of scenes and objects – such as food, nightscapes, sunsets and beaches – automatically adjusting colour, contrast, brightness and exposure to produce vibrant and sharp photographs. DESIGN The devices have a 6-inch screen with an 18:9 FHD+ OLED display, barely there-bezel and HDR10 to support vivid colours. They also sport a 3D glass body, beautifully and symmetrically curved on all four sides for an ergonomic hold. The devices have a water and dust resistant exterior, which are available in titanium grey and mocha brown.  PROCESSING POWER The breakthrough AI phones combine innovative hardware, with the latest Kirin 970 processor and all new EMUI 8.0, which is the phone’s interface. Kirin 970 allows for 25 times better performance and 50 times greater energy efficiency.  While more processes will be running, your phone will maintain its speed.  Both the Mate 10 Pro and Porsche design boasts the massive 4,000 mAh battery. It supports 4.5V/5A low-voltage fast charging, powering the device from 1% to 20% in 10 minutes. The Mate 10 Porsche Design has storage of  256GB while the Mate 10 Pro has 128 GB. Through new partnerships, including Microsoft and LinkedIn, Huawei also brings its translator app and better access to your LinkedIn account. Even when a user is not online (flight mode), you’ll be able to take a picture of text which will instantly be translated to the language of your choice. The Huawei Mate 10 Pro’s new EMUI 8 OS will also enable users to connect directly to their LinkedIn accounts, and profile information on their LinkedIn contacts will be directly integrated into the address books on their devices.  This means that when users receive a call or message, they can immediately see the individual’s professional identity.  With these new devices, users will also be able to perform functions on monitors or TVs through an HDMI cable. You could run a business meeting from your monitor at work, while responding to texts through your phone without having it displayed on the monitor. The Huawei Mate 10 Series supports super-fast LTE connectivity and download speeds. The device comes with the world’s first dual 4G SIM support and dual VoLTE connections. PRICES AND AVAILABILITY  The Huawei Mate 10 Pro will cost you R17,999, and is available at Huawei stores, Vodacom, Telkom, Cell C and MTN. The Porsche Design Huawei Mate 10 will sell at R26,999 at Huawei stores, MTN and Telkom. Find out more about the new devices via Huawei.