
                                            The ANC has since condemned Ramaphosa’s pronouncements again calling for leaders not to play into factions and refrain from slate politics.
                                         JOHANNESBURG - Concerns have been raised about a lack of youth representation on deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa’s slate.  At a campaign rally in Limpopo at the weekend Ramaphosa announced what he called the winning team to take the African National Congress (ANC) forward.  It included Gauteng ANC chairperson Paul Mashatile, ANC secretary general Gwede Mantashe, former KwaZulu-Natal chairperson Senzo Mchunu and Science and Technology Minister Naledi Pandor.   Political analyst Daniel Silke says that Pandor is seen as a credible comrade but isn’t well known enough. “From a generational view, she is a little older and this would create some doubt among the younger voters in particular, who may want younger representatives in the future.” The ANC has since condemned Ramaphosa’s pronouncements again calling for leaders not to play into factions and refrain from slate politics. At the same time, the so-called ANC rebels, who took the KwaZulu-Natal executive to court, say that Ramaphosa will lead the organisation into an era where the party will be a "joy" to belong to. It says that at least 80 branches have grievances surrounding general meetings but won’t lodge them with the illegitimate provincial leadership, which it says must vacate office. The rebels have slammed Lindiwe Sisulu’s "negative" comments about their slate and have taken exception to those against Ramaphosa, in which she said she doesn’t need him to ascend into the top position. Spokesperson Sthembiso Mshengu says that Ramaphosa will lead an era which will see the renewal of the organisation. "We love Cyril Ramaphosa, it’s not a joke anymore. We just trust the man. "He will take the ANC from corruption to an era where the ANC will be a joy where everyone will belong to." The so-called rebels have also condemned the ANC national executive committee for not returning to KwaZulu-Natal as promised to resolve the political deadlock. As a result, they claim the branch general meetings have been marred by "unprecedented" levels of chaos and outright fraud. (Edited by Leeto M Khoza)