
                                            Dlamini Zuma’s name has come up in claims of corruption with allegations contained in Jacques Pauw’s latest book 'The President’s Keepers'.
                                         JOHANNESBURG - African National Congress (ANC) presidential hopeful Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma says that she’s never been corrupt, doesn’t loot and never will.  Dlamini Zuma’s name has come up in claims of corruption with allegations contained in Jacques Pauw’s latest book The President’s Keepers that her campaign is funded by Adriano Mazotti.    Mazotti is purported to have signed an affidavit in 2014 in which he admits his complicity in a host of crimes, including fraud, money laundering, corruption, tax evasion and bribery. People can accuse me of many things but not corruption. I’m not corrupt and I don’t loot. Never have, never will be.  When I banned smoking in public spaces and advertising, I had Discussions with investors including Johan Rupert. We didn’t agree, he took me to court. We won the case.  We can’t say people in South Africa must remain poor because of investors.  We must agree that South Africa needs a massive skills revolution. Our children need to be skilled with skills that can grow our economy.  Dlamini Zuma’s spokesperson Carl Niehaus has denied the claims, insisting that they have no ties with Mazzotti. Reuters is reporting that during an interview on ANN7 on Thursday night, Dlamini Zuma said her priority will be to transfer wealth from the white minority to the black majority, who are generally much poorer.  She also reportedly said it’s fine if the country’s white business community refuses to endorse her bid to succeed President Jacob Zuma. Those who opposed the policy were mainly white people or members of the black elite who want to preserve the status quo, she said.  “If we have to choose between our people having a better life and investment, that’s not a choice,” she said, when asked about whether her policies could scare away businesses.  “I‘m not afraid. I‘m not afraid of them. But I‘m not surprised white minority capital is not endorsing me,” she said on ANN7 television in a rare interview.  ANC delegates will vote for a new party president next month, with Dlamini-Zuma expected to face deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa, a unionist-turned-millionaire businessman who is more popular with foreign investors.  “From where I sit, it’s looking good. The campaign is going well,” said Dlamini-Zuma, who was married to the president.  The winner of the party vote will be favourite to become the next president of South Africa, either at an election in 2019, or before if Zuma stands down or is forced out by the new ANC leadership next year.  Apartheid in South Africa ended in 1994 but much of the country’s wealth resides with the white minority. Successive ANC governments have said they want to empower the majority, though many black people have seen only modest economic gains.  Dlamini-Zuma, who has held several cabinet posts and was most recently chair of the African Union, has pledged to tackle poverty and close the gaping racial inequality gap.  Some investors are concerned about Dlamini-Zuma’s proposed plan of “radical economic transformation”, which critics have said is a populist term that isn’t backed up by solid policies. Additional information by Reuters (Edited by Leeto M Khoza)