
                                            NB Publishers say it received a cease and desist letter from the State Security Agency, demanding that they withdraw the book.
                                         JOHANNESBURG - Journalist and author Jacques Pauw says he's not concerned about legal threats from Sars  or the State Security Agency, saying he was expecting the authorities to take action against him. His new book The President's Keepers contains allegations against President Jacob Zuma relating to corruption and irregularities with his tax affairs. He insists that he hasn't published anything unlawfully. “We will say the information we have printed is credible, that I’m legally entitled to the information and that I have not broken any law.” Pauw says he hasn't breached the State Security Act. “We will show and prove that the information we received about the State Security Act, the first operation that they ran a few years ago, the principal agents project, I cannot endanger the lives of agents because this project doesn’t exist anymore.” NB Publishers say they have received a cease and desist letter from the State Security Agency, demanding that they withdraw the book from all stores. The publisher says it stands by Pauw and his book. The book claims Zuma received R1 million a month from a security company without declaring it to the revenue service. It also accuses presidential hopeful Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma of dealings with a notorious businessman. Earlier this week, Pauw said he stood by his work, adding that he didn’t approach the Presidency or Dlamini Zuma for a reply because he felt it was too dangerous. “This is clearly not a work of journalism, this is not a story in a newspaper. But even the press makes provision for the fact that if the newspapers, for example, believes that publication can be stopped by asking people for comment, it is justifiable not to go to those persons to get their side of the story.” Dlamini Zuma's spokesperson Carl Niehaus insisted they have no ties with Adriano Mazzotti. “Primarily this campaign is being funded and run through volunteers, people who do not demand payment for their time but we do it out of commitment.” Read the full document below:    Cease Desist by Primedia Broadcasting on Scribd  SARS CONCERNED Earlier on Friday, Sars said it is deeply concerned about the publication of confidential taxpayer information. It said it was seeking legal advice on what steps to take, including but not limited to criminal and civil investigations against Pauw and theSunday Times.  The revenue service said the publication of confidential taxpayer information is unlawful and its duty-bound to address the violation of the Tax Administration Act. Sars said the article hinges on the predictable narrative that the organisation cannot fulfil its mandate since the appointment of Tom Moyane because he is allegedly using his position to protect the president. It said the irresponsible and mischievous tone of the article seeks to cast a negative light on Moyane’s character and perpetuates the unfounded narrative that he’s involved in efforts to quash the president’s tax liability. Sars said it cannot discuss any person’s tax affairs because it is against the law. (Edited by Winnie Theletsane)