
                                            President Jacob Zuma has denied the existence of state capture. Eyewitness News has put together a timeline of events that suggest otherwise.
                                         JOHANNESBURG - President Jacob Zuma has denied the existence of state capture. Eyewitness News has put together a list of facts that suggest otherwise. • First things first. In 2016, then Public Protector Thuli Madonsela released the state capture report titled the State of Capture - the name itself says a lot. Her report detailed several phone calls and visits to the Gupta family from government officials. • Former deputy Finance Minister Mcebisi Jonas  claims that the Guptas offered him the position of Finance Minister and R600 million. They even told him he could have the money immediately, provided he had a bag large enough to carry it. • Zuma fired Nhanhla Nene  as Finance Minister in December 2015 and told him he'd be deployed to the BRICS bank. That deployment has still not materialised. • On the same day that Nene was fired, records also place Des van Rooyen (who was later named the new Finance Minister, but only for a weekend) at the Gupta's Saxonwold home on 8 December 2015. • Former Eskom CEO Brian Molefe called Ajay Gupta 44 times between August 2015 and March 2016. • Cellphone records show Molefe was in Saxonwold 19 times between August and November - he claims he was at the Saxonwold shebeen, which to this day has not been found. • During Parliament’s inquiry into Eskom, former Eskom CEO Brian Dames  confirmed he was asked by former Public Enterprises Minister Malusi Gigaba’s adviser Siyabonga Mahlangu to meet with “some people” during his stint as CEO. • In 2016, former ANC MP Vytjie Mentor said the Guptas offered her the position of Public Enterprises Minister in 2010, while Zuma was in the other room, in exchange for a favourable business decision. • Eskom’s suspended legal head Suzanne Daniels has detailed Eskom’s relationship with Gupta-linked Trillian and consultancy firm McKinsey. • The Gupta leaks. An AmaBhungane and Scorpio expose reveals how the president’s friends and their associates diverted billions of rand from state-owned enterprises such as Eskom, Transnet and SAA to offshore accounts. And despite the fact that Zuma does not believe in the existence of state capture, he has warned that those calling for an inquiry into state capture and using the term to play politics will regret it, saying that the inquiry will go after everyone involved in corruption.