The 65-year-old producer has been accused of sexually assaulting a number of women over a 30 year period. LOS ANGELES - Jake Gyllenhaal believes there has been a "shift" in Hollywood since the Harvey Weinstein scandal. The 65-year-old producer has been accused of sexually assaulting a number of women over a 30-year period and Gyllenhaal  believes that the victims who have spoken up have caused a change in the industry for the better. WATCH: Clooney, Moore and Damon discuss Harvey Weinstein  Speaking about his hopes that the scandal has changed things, he told Extra: "I'm a hopeful person, but as Morgan Freeman's character says in Shawshank Redemption, 'Hope can be a dangerous thing.' But I do think there is a huge shift." Since the allegations were made against Weinstein, he has been sacked from The Weinstein Company and has been banned from the Producers Guild of America for life. In a statement, they said: "As was recently reported, the Producers Guild's national board of directors voted unanimously to initiate proceedings to terminate the membership of Harvey Weinstein. "The PGA constitution requires that members be given 15 days' notice before disciplinary action is taken. The guild has received notice that rather than addressing the guild's charges, Mr. Weinstein elected to resign his membership in the Producers Guild. "In light of Mr. Weinstein's widely reported behaviour - with new reports continuing to surface even now - the Producers Guild's national board has voted unanimously to enact a lifetime ban on Mr. Weinstein, permanently barring him from PGA membership. "This unprecedented step is a reflection of the seriousness with which the Guild regards the numerous reports of Mr. Weinstein's decades of reprehensible conduct. "Sexual harassment can no longer be tolerated in our industry or within the ranks of Producers Guild membership. As stated previously, the PGA's officers and national board of directors have created the Anti-Sexual Harassment Task Force specifically charged with researching and proposing substantive and effective solutions to combat sexual harassment in the entertainment industry."