Anna Graham Hunter alleged Hoffman 'grabbed' her ass on the set and asked her to give him a foot massage. LONDON - Dustin Hoffman appeared at the Hollywood Film Awards on Sunday night in his first public appearance since he apologised for allegedly sexually harassing an intern several years ago. The 80-year-old actor presented the Hollywood Comedy Award to Adam Sandler - who he stars alongside in Netflix's The Meyerowitz Stories - at the Hollywood Film Awards at The Beverly Hilton Hotel in Beverly Hills, California. But he isn't said to have made any acknowledgement of the recent harassment allegation. Last week, the Graduate actor said sorry after Anna Graham Hunter, an intern on his hit movie Death of a Salesman in 1985, claimed the actor made unwanted advances to her and said vulgar things to her, but he insisted the alleged incident was "not reflective" of who he is. He said in a statement: "I have the utmost respect for women and feel terrible that anything I might have done could have put her in an uncomfortable situation. I am sorry. It is not reflective of who I am." Hunter alleged Hoffman "grabbed" her ass on the set and asked her to give him a foot massage. She wrote: "When I was a senior in high school in New York City, interning as a production assistant on the set of the Death of a Salesman TV film, he asked me to give him a foot massage my first day on set; I did. "He was openly flirtatious, he grabbed my ass, he talked about sex to me and in front of me." Her piece detailing her experiences from the set were taken from copies of notes she wrote to her sister at the time. She added: "Today, I realised some things about this business that scare me. First of all, Dustin's a lech. I'm completely disillusioned. After 'Tootsie', I thought I wanted to marry him... "Today, when I was walking Dustin to his limo, he felt my ass four times. I hit him each time, hard, and told him he was a dirty old man. He took off his hat and pointed to his head (shaved for the part) and said, 'No, I'm a dirty young man, I have a full head of hair.' "