
                                            Eyewitnesses reported ambulances ferrying casualties from the scene to nearby hospitals after the attack on Al Rawdah mosque in Bir al-Abed, west of Arish city
                                         CAIRO/JOHANNESBURG - The death toll from an attack on a Sinai mosque has now risen to 235.   At least 100 others have been rushed to hospitals with serious injuries and after suspected militants targeted the mosque with a bomb and gunfire, MENA state news agency said on Friday, citing an official source. Eyewitnesses reported ambulances ferrying casualties from the scene to nearby hospitals after the attack on Al Rawdah mosque in Bir al-Abed, west of Arish city. JUST IN: At least 85 people killed in attack on mosque in Egypt's North Sinai region, state-owned media says https://t.co/IxAIJeERdO pic.twitter.com/ZGD0H0kuYv  President Abdel Fattah al Sisi convened an emergency security meeting soon after the attack, state television reported. Egypt’s security forces are battling an Islamic State insurgency in north Sinai, where militants have killed hundreds of police and soldiers since fighting there intensified over the last three years. Militants have mostly targeted security forces in their attacks, but have also tried to expand beyond the peninsula by hitting Egyptian Christian churches and pilgrims. The Presidency in Egypt has declared three days of national mourning. REACTION Meanwhile, the British ambassador to Egypt, John Casson, took to Twitter to condemn the attack. I am disgusted by the evil attack that killed & injured so many Egyptians in Sinai today. On behalf of the UK my deep condolences to all involved. These attacks on people praying in mosques & churches only strengthen our determination to stand together, & defeat terrorism & hate.  Many others have turned to social media after the mosque attack. #Egypt prayers for all who have passed away.  My heart goes to everyone involved in #EgyptTerrorAttack . I am speechless hope there will be better days  #Egypt  Strongly condemn this barbaric, inhumane & terrorist attack on mosque in #Sinai #Egypt that killed more than 150 people. Deplorable  RIP Prayer for Egypt  (Edited by Shimoney Regter)