
                                            According to the head of the liberation war veterans Chris Mutsvangwa, the meeting has been convened to remove President Robert Mugabe as its leader.
                                         JOHANNESBURG - Zimbabwe’s ruling Zanu-PF's special central committee meeting is underway. According to the head of the liberation war veterans Chris Mutsvangwa, Sunday's meeting has been convened to remove President Robert Mugabe as its leader. Reuters is reporting that Mutsvangwa, who’s led the campaign to oust Zimbabwe’s ruler of the last 37-years, said the meeting would also reinstate the axed vice president. Mutsvangwa has also reportedly threatened to unleash the mob against the president if he continues to refuse to step down. It's also being reported that Mugabe's wife, Grace, will be ousted as head of the Zanu-PF Women's League. Following the army’s take over earlier this week, citizens took to the streets on Saturday calling for Mugabe’s downfall. WATCH: Thousands of marchers in Harare call for Mugabe to go  Following the peaceful protest in Harare, Zimbabweans said they are satisfied they have sent a clear message to Mugabe and his wife Grace to leave the highest office of the land. Thousands marched through the streets of Harare in support of the military who took over government following the sacking of vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa. Zimbabweans say they are ready for a new president. Zimbabweans did not hold back their punches, publicly displaying their disdain towards Mugabe and his wife grace. Some held placards bearing the image of a sleeping Mugabe with the words: “Mugabe Must Rest Now” written on them. GALLERY: The people have spoken: Zimbabweans call for Mugabe to go  Others directed their blows towards the first lady with posters that read: “Gucci Grace Must Go” This protester said he believes Mugabe got the message. “You look around you my friend, this is a clear message. He knows and he won’t go back today.” Zimbabweans say want the 18th of November declared national independence day because it’s the day they united against Mugabe’s regime. Additional reporting by Masechaba Sefularo & Hitekani Magwedze.