The 'Daydreamer' hitmaker tragically passed away on November 21 aged 67 LOS ANGELES - The late David Cassidy's daughter, Katie Cassidy, has taken to social media to reveal her father's last words before he passed away earlier this week. The Daydreamer hitmaker tragically passed away on November 21 aged 67, after suffering from organ failure, and just days after the news of his death the late singer's 30-year-old daughter, Katie Cassidy, has taken to social media to reveal the last comment her father made before he died. The Arrow actress - who is the daughter of Cassidy's former partner Sherry Williams - tweeted: "My father's last words were 'So much wasted time'. (sic)." And the The Flash beauty believes her late parent's final utterance will be a "daily reminder" for her to share her "gratitude" for her loved ones. She continued: "This will be a daily reminder for me to share my gratitude with those I love as to never waste another minute....thank you. (sic)."  Even though close friends and family are still mourning the loss, Katie has admitted the kind words her and her family have received following Cassidy's death have been comforting to them. She said: "Words cant express the solace our family's received from all the love & support during this trying time. (sic)." Meanwhile, other heartfelt tributes to the actor have come flooding in, including a sweet message from Shirley Jones - who was Cassidy's step-mother while she was married to his father Jack Cassidy from 1956 to 1974 - in which she has praised the "sweet sensitivity" of the late star. Speaking previously the 83-year-old actress and Cassidy's on-screen mother in The Partridge Family said: "Long before he played my son on 'The Partridge Family', David Cassidy was my step-son in real life. As a little boy, his sweet sensitivity and wicked sense of humour were already on display, and I will treasure the years we spent working and growing together. I will also find solace knowing that David is now with his dad. "My heart is with David's daughter, Katie, his son, Beau, and with Shaun, Patrick, and Ryan, whom I know are deeply missing their brother today. Thank you for the enormous outpouring of affection you have offered our family at this difficult time." Jones isn't the only star to have paid tribute to the singer - who also had son Beau with his ex-wife Sue Shifrin - as Brian Wilson, Marie Osmond and Harry Connick Jr. also shared their condolences. Beach Boys singer Wilson tweeted: "I'm very sad to hear about David Cassidy. There were times in the mid-1970s when he would come over to my house and we even started writing a song together. He was a very talented and nice person. Love & Mercy to David and his family.(sic)"  David's nephew Jack Cassidy also shared his thoughts on the tragic passing of his uncle. He wrote: "My uncle David Cassidy has sadly passed away tonight... & in the process of mourning I can't help but thank God for the joy that he brought to countless millions of people! I don't think I'm alone in saying that we will all miss him. God Speed! (sic)."