The 'OMG' hitmaker was hit by a $20 million lawsuit in August from two women and a man who claimed he had put them at risk of the sexually-transmitted disease. LOS ANGELES - Usher's herpes lawsuit has been dropped. The OMG hitmaker was hit by a $20 million lawsuit in August from two women and a man who claimed he had put them at risk of the sexually-transmitted disease. But after a recorded phone call was revealed in which one of the women admits to having used protection during her relationship with the musician, the case has been dismissed. Laura Helm's phone call was recorded two days before filing the lawsuit against the star, and according to TMZ.com, after her first attorney dropped out of the case, her replacement immediately filed legal documents to dismiss the case. However, the dismissal has been handed down without prejudice, "with intent to refile", and it is currently unclear why her lawyer made the move to dismiss. In September, Usher, 39, filed a response to the lawsuit through his lawyers in which he denied their claims he had sexual contact with them or exposed them to herpes. Usher's lawyers, Laura Wasser and Zia Modabber insist the plaintiffs argued they can't win because they have "unclean hands", alleging they did something wrong, but not being specific as to what. The response from the Yeah! singer also insisted the group don't have a legal claim because anything he may have done was unintentional, suggesting that if he does have the infection - which he has neither confirmed nor denied - he didn't know it at the time. He also argued that if he did have sex with any of them, they "assumed the risk". The three alleged victims took legal action after it emerged the U Make Me Wanna hitmaker had paid a woman $1.1 million in 2012 to settle a lawsuit after she claimed to have contracted herpes from. The settled 2012 suit claimed Usher had been diagnosed with herpes around 2009 or 2010, but he was accused of "consciously and purposefully" withholding his diagnosis from the unnamed woman and "continued to have unprotected sex" with her.