
                                            Defending Premiership champions Bidvest Wits suffered a 2-0 defeat to Sundowns on Tuesday night and remain second from the bottom of the log
                                         JOHANNESBURG - Sundowns has moved to fourth place on the Absa Premiership log after defeating Bidvest Wits 2-0 on Tuesday night. The visiting Brazilians constantly put Wits under pressure, and if it weren’t for the heroics of goalkeeper Darren Keet, the scoreline would have been much higher.  Keet’s shot-stopping heroics weren’t enough to stop substitute Khama Billiat from scoring from just outside of the box in the 62nd minute to give Sundowns the lead.  Sundowns thought they had doubled their lead in the 78th minute when Keet saved Sibusiso Vilakazi’s attempt and the rebound fell to Percy Tau, who put the ball in the back of the net, only for it to be judged offside.  Billiat made sure that the Brazilians did not rue that missed opportunity when he was on hand to finish off a sweeping counter-attacking move to double their lead and seal the victory.  Sundowns head coach Pitso Mosimane says that the team wasted plenty of opportunities in front of goal.  “I’m happy with the goals and the result, but I’m not happy with some of the finishing in front of goal. I thought if Percy Tau was more composed and Vilakazi was more assertive, we could have scored more goals.”  The loss is Wits’ sixth of the season and their poor defence of the title they won last season continues.  In other league results from Tuesday night Cape Town City missed out on the opportunity to leapfrog Baroka FC to the top of the log when the two teams played out to a 1-1 draw in Cape Town. There was another draw at the Orlando Stadium between Orlando Pirates and Golden Arrows.  There is more action on Wednesday when Free State Stars take on Chippa United at Goble Park, Platinum Stars face Bloemfontein Celtic at the Royal Bafokeng Stadium, Amazulu are at home to Kaizer Chiefs at the King Zwelithini Stadium, while Polokwane City and Maritzburg United will be eager to make moves up the table when they clash at the Old Peter Mokaba Stadium. 