
                                            Zimbabwe’s protest pastor Evan Mawarire says citizens in that country must play their part in standing against the current government and bring about positive change.
                                         JOHANNESBURG - Zimbabwe’s protest pastor Evan Mawarire says citizens in that country must play their part in standing against the current government and bring about positive change. Mawarire has responded to the dramatic developments in Zimbabwe. But he has also warned that Zimbabwe’s Constitution and democracy must be guarded. The military in Zimbabwe has seized power and detained President Robert Mugabe. Mawarire says every citizen must play their part. “The reason that we began to stand up against our government in 2016 was that we found it in ourselves as citizens that we could get to a place, somehow, where we can bring a change to Zimbabwe.” Mawarire has called on his countrymen to be cautious with their reaction to the military take-over and defend the Constitution. Mugabe has told President Jacob Zuma by phone that he’s being confined to his home and is fine. Mawarire says Zimbabwe’s Constitution must be protected. “we’re very cognisant of the fact that we must not take our eye off the ball in making sure that our constitution is not violated, in making sure that democracy is maintained as the preferred way to govern our nation.” African leaders have echoed his sentiments. Nigerian President Muhamadu Buhari has called for calm, peace and respect for the Constitution of Zimbabwe. Namibia says its concerned that the volatility could create uncertainty that’s not conducive to peace and democracy in the region as a whole. Meanwhile, Americans in Zimbabwe are being advised to take care. The United States Embassy in Zimbabwe has said that as a result of the ongoing political uncertainty in the country, the US ambassador has instructed all employees to remain home today. The embassy has encouraged American citizens to shelter in place until further notice. President Donald Trump has not yet said or tweeted anything on the matter but it’s likely he is joining world leaders in monitoring the situation. Meanwhile, the United Nations, which is taking part in a massive climate conference, has yet to make a statement on the country’s current situation. 'DICTATORSHIP HAS NO PLACE IN AFRICA' As world leaders react to the political impasse in Zimbabwe, United Nations Chief Antonio Guterres is appealing for calm and non-violence in the country. At the same time, Britain’s Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs Boris Johnson says he’s spoken to Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa about the situation. Johnson says citizens in Zimbabwe should decide their own future during elections. He says dictatorship has no place in Africa. (Edited by Zamangwane Shange)