
                                            Markle is now going to put all her focus on to charitable work alongside her husband-to-be and is excited to start this new challenge.

                                         LONDON - Prince Harry's fiancée Meghan Markle has now given up her acting career so she can marry the British royal. The 36-year-old American star and the British royal announced on Monday they are getting married and will tie the knot in spring 2018, thereby bringing Markle's acting career - which has seen her appear in the hit US drama series Suits - to an end. Markle is now going to put all her focus on to her charitable work alongside her husband-to-be and she's excited to start this new challenge. She said: "I think what's been so exciting [transitioning] out of my career and into, as you said, the causes I can focus even more energy on, very early out of the gate, [is that you] have a voice that people listen to, a lot of responsibility." Markle has already served as a UN Ambassador and previously studied international relations. The brunette beauty has insisted that rather than dwelling on the end of her acting career, she is committed to making a change in the world with her humanitarian work. Markle - who recently finished shooting her final scenes for Suits - told the BBC: "I see it as new change, a new chapter. I've been working on my show [for] seven years, we were so fortunate to have that longevity, and I feel like I checked that box and am very proud of the work I've done there." Meanwhile, Prince Harry has insisted that his future wife is already aware of the enormous responsibility she's taking on. He explained: "[There's a] sense of responsibility from day one. I fell in love with her and she fell in love with me ... but then we had to have some frank conversations for what you're getting yourself into is a big deal and at the end of the day she chose me and I chose her, whatever we have to tackle individually or together, we will do it as a team. I think she's capable of anything." 