‘She is King’ tells the aspirational story of a young woman, burning with talent and ambition, who is prepared to fight hard for her place. The film opens in SA cinemas on 1 December. JOHANNESBURG - She is King is a celebration of the Zulu culture in a glossy contemporary setting, showing off the City of Gold as the Broadway of Africa. It stars Khabonina Qubeka, Khanyi Mbau, Gugu Zulu, Mandisa Nduna and Aubrey Poo, to name a few. The musical, which took three and a half years to make from scripting to producing, also features DJ Shimza, Moonchild and Ifani. Directed by Gersh Kgamedi, She is King tells the story of Khanyisile, a talented singer, dancer and actor who wants to be a star. The boasts a strong combination of well-known local faces and exciting newcomers. Kgamedi said: “It tells the aspirational story of a young woman, burning with talent and ambition, who is prepared to fight hard for her place in the sun. It’s all stylish Africanism, deeply rooted in the depth and beauty of the Zulu culture."   Kgamedi says he is hoping audiences will enjoy the film, as well as the acting, as it is a positive representation of women. "In the past, females in cinemas didn't have a voice. They are either mothers or lovers, they are always in the periphery. There are only a few stories where women are in the forefront and that's what we wanted to enforce. "Often women don't have a voice in the pictures that are made. You don't find women as the lead, driving the narrative. And the intention was to tell a story from a female perspective, especially a young female." Kgamedi's message to young women is that if one is driven, one can achieve one's dreams. "You don't have to have a blesser. You can work on your dreams and achieve the goals that you set for yourself."   Kgamedi added that he is certain the film with thrill young people. Showcasing South African music, the film includes songs by Ladysmith Black Mambazo, Juluka and Brenda Fassie, as well as a number of traditional Zulu musicians. She is King had its première on 26 October at the Joburg Theatre. The film was made with the support of the Department of Trade and Industry and the Gauteng Film Commission and will be distributed in South Africa by Indigenous Film Distribution. It opens at Ster-Kinekor, Numetro and independent cinemas on 1 December.   WATCH: 'She is King' trailer 