
                                            President Jacob Zuma says that the commission will only be launched after judgment is handed down in his court bid to have part of former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela’s remedial action set aside.
                                         CAPE TOWN - President Jacob Zuma says that he will launch a judicial commission of inquiry into state capture. However, he says that the commission will only be launched after judgment is handed down in his court bid to have part of former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela’s remedial action set aside. He made the comments during his final question and answer session for the year in Parliament on Thursday. Advocate Madonsela directed that a commission of inquiry be established but Zuma should not decide who will lead it. Zuma argues that the Public Protector’s remedial action is unconstitutional because the power to appoint a commission vests with the president. The president now wants to appoint his own commission. “I’m ready after the judgment, I’m going to establish it immediately. There’s no doubt about it. All these issues that people talk about, they’re going to go to that commission. So, we’ll prove the liars and the truths.” Zuma also warned that those calling for the inquiry are “going to regret” it, suggesting that its scope might range much further than the state capture allegations. He dismissed efforts to get a figure on the legal costs of his litigation in the spy tapes saga as a political manoeuvre by the DA, saying that he’s entitled by law to have the state pick up the tab. Zuma’s final question and answer session for the year saw insults flying and a walkout by the opposition Democratic Alliance (DA), over his failure to put a figure to the legal costs of his lengthy legal battle over the 2009 decision to drop the charges against him. “Why ask me? Political. Because you just want to ask the question from the president, because you must abuse the president while he is here. That’s why I answered the question in the way that I did, and I’ll stick to that.” He has also dismissed claims that he was on the payroll of a private company after he became the leader of the country. (Edited by Shimoney Regter)