
                                            Zimbabwe's new president Emmerson Mnangagwa addressed thousands of citizens during his inauguration speech at the national sports stadium in Harare earlier on Friday.
                                         JOHANNESBURG - Newly inaugurated president Emmerson Mnangagwa has paid tribute to his predecessor, Robert Mugabe, assuring him that his family will be protected. The man known as "The Crocodile" was sworn in as president at the Zimbabwean sports stadium on Friday. Despite the glaring absence of former President Mugabe and his wife Grace at the inauguration ceremony, newly installed Mnangagwa urged Zimbabweans to remember Mugabe’s contribution towards the country’s liberation. Mnangagwa says Mugabe should be exempted from errors he made. “Whatever errors or omission that might have occurred during that critical phase in the life of our nation let us all accept his immense contribution.” He says history should grant him his place as one of the founding fathers of Zimbabwe. “He led us in our struggle for national independence, he assumed responsibilities of leadership.” Mnangagwa made a special mention of former Zambian president Kenneth Kaunda among other international dignitaries present. Mnangagwa says his administration will focus on serving the people of the country and ensuring that corruption is rooted out of government. He says one of the many ways to build a strong economy is to get rid of graft. “As we focus on recovering our economy, we must shed misbehaviours and acts of ill-discipline which have characterised the past. Acts of corruption must stop.” VISION TO REVITALISE RAVAGED ECONOMY Mnangagwa has laid out a grand vision to revitalise Zimbabwe's ravaged economy and has vowed to rule on behalf of all the country's citizens. Sworn in just days after the overthrow of Mugabe, the 75-year-old former security chief promised to guarantee the rights of foreign investors and to re-engage with the west. In a 30-minute speech to tens of thousands of supporters, Mnangagwa extended an olive branch to opponents, apparently aiming to bridge the ethnic and political divides exploited by his predecessor during his 37 years in charge. ELECTIONS WILL BE HELD AS SCHEDULED Mnangagwa has guaranteed Zimbabweans that the 2018 elections will be held as scheduled. Zimbabweans are expected to go to the polls in July next year. Mnangagwa has assured the people of Zimbabwe that the general elections set to take place next year will happen as planned. Mnangagwa has asked Zimbabweans to practice the same peace and harmony shown in the events leading up to the removal of his predecessor as the nation prepares to head to the polls. “Peace and harmony should be characteristic of how we relate to one another before, during and after 2018 harmonised democratic elections next year. I commit to you today that these elections will be held as should.” The Zanu-PF has already announced that Mnangagwa is their preferred candidate for party presidency. The ruling party is expected to hold its national congress next month, where the decision to make Mnangagwa party leader will be ratified.