
                                            Bafana failed to qualify for the Fifa World Cup in Russia following a 2-0 defeat to Senegal at the Peter Mokaba Stadium in Polokwane on Friday night. 
                                         JOHANNESBURG - Former Bafana Bafana head coach, Gordon Igesund  says that the South African Football Association (Safa) should not make rash decisions following Bafana’s dismal qualifying campaign. Bafana failed to qualify for the Fifa World Cup in Russia following a 2-0 defeat to Senegal at the Peter Mokaba Stadium in Polokwane on Friday night. The national side’s equation going into Friday’s game was to win both games against the Lions of Teranga to ensure that they booked one of five African spots at next year’s showpiece. Speaking to EWN Sport, former mentor Igesund called for calm from Safa and insists that current incumbent Stuart Baxter’s head should not be put on the chopping block. “I think that there needs to be continuity in the coaching staff and the coaches need to be backed. In South Africa, the coaches are always scapegoats for poor performances, and if you do not fulfil a particular mandate, you are out.” Igesund who was relieved of his duties as Bafana coach in August 2014 says that the country focuses too heavily on world cups. “When I was at Bafana I lost two official games, and the rest of them were top European teams, but because you don’t qualify you are out, which shouldn’t be the case.” Igesund, who currently coaches ABC Motsepe League side Santos FC, also says that South Africa is blessed with great coaches who have been under-appreciated. “I thought Shakes did a really good job and in my opinion, Stuart is a fantastic coach but there is talk of him being out of a job. I say let us leave the coach, and give him four or five years instead of a year or 18 months and he is out.” Bafana Bafana are in action again on Tuesday, when they conclude their qualifying campaign in a dead rubber return leg against Senegal in Dakar.