The 48-year-old singer recently announced she was pulling the plug on a few of her upcoming performances last week due to an upper respiratory infection. LOS ANGELES - Mariah Carey has cancelled three more days of her Christmas All I Want For Christmas Is you World Tour, because she needs more time to recover from her respiratory infection. The blonde-haired beauty has since taken to social media to announce she is scraping even more gigs from her tour because she has been told by medical experts she needs "a few extra days of rest". Alongside an advertisement for her festive string of concerts, which was posted on her Instagram account, she wrote: "I hope everyone had a wonderful Thanksgiving with loved ones; it's certainly nice to remember what we are grateful for! Like most, I'm thankful for my overall health... for which I need a bit more time to get right. Doctors have ordered a few extra days of rest before I can finally fly to New York and take the stage for my Christmas Tour (sic)." I hope everyone had a wonderful Thanksgiving with loved ones; it’s certainly nice to remember what we are grateful for!  Like most, I’m thankful for my overall health… for which I need a bit more time to get right.  Doctors have ordered a few extra days of rest before I can finally fly to New York and take the stage for my Christmas Tour.  While this news disappoints me to share, I am grateful to be on the mend and for the support from all of you - it means the world to me!  See you from the stage soon darlings! ❤, Mariah Read more: mariahcarey.com A post shared by Mariah Carey (@mariahcarey) on Nov 24, 2017 at 3:39pm PST  Although theHeartbreaker hitmaker is "disappointed" with the news, she is "grateful" she is slowly recovering from her illness. She concluded: "While this news disappoints me to share, I am grateful to be on the mend and for the support from all of you - it means the world to me! See you from the stage soon darlings! , Mariah (sic)." Mariah - who has twins Moroccan and Monroe, both six, with her former partner Nick Cannon - was originally due to take to the stage on 14 November and later perform on 27,28 November as well as 1 December. But the dates have since been pushed back to December 2, which will see Mariah wow crowds at the Beacon Theatre in New York, before she heads to Paris, Manchester and London, to then take to Las Vegas on 14 December for a string of shows to conclude her tour. And refunds will be offered to people who bought tickets for the cancelled dates.