
                                            The 'Sunday Times' is in possession of photographs, proving at least two meetings of the pair took in London and in Sandton respectively.
                                         JOHANNESBURG - More information around who's been contributing to Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma's election campaign has come to light. The Sunday Times is reporting that the presidential hopeful met self-confessed smuggler Adriano Mazzotti more than once, instead of the onetime Mazzotti had claimed. The paper is in possession of photographs posted on Instagram, proving at least two meetings of the pair took in London and in Sandton respectively. Last week, the paper reported on the contents of a book by investigative journalist Jacques Pauw which stated that Mazzotti had contributed election paraphernalia to Dlamini Zuma's campaign. Dlamini Zuma's spokesperson has told the Sunday Times that she denies knowledge of Mazzotti contributing to her campaign but conceded to meeting him at a business lunch with Invest Africa in London. Pauw has alleged that Mazzotti is a self-confessed smuggler, fraudster and money launderer. In his book, Pauw says Mazzotti signed an affidavit in May 2014 admitting complicity in a host of crimes, including fraud, money laundering, corruption, tax evasion and bribery. The outspoken Economic Freedom Fighters and Julius Malema backer says he is not funding Dlamini Zuma's campaign although he does admit to having met her once in Europe. LISTEN: author defends explosive book on Zuma  CONCERNS Corruption Watch says it’s concerning that the State Security Agency and Sars want to clamp down on freedom of speech to ensure that President Jacob Zuma continues to act with impunity, without being held accountable. This follows threats by the institutions to go to court to prevent further distribution, printing or publishing of Pauw's book.Corruption Watch has condemned the threats and called upon Pauw and his publisher to stand firm knowing that they enjoy the full support of the majority of South Africans. It says it will continue to support the author and other investigative journalists in exposing and combatting corruption. Executive Director David Lewis said: “We may find a way of supporting him legally if he’s charged and we may find other ways of demonstrating our support. We’ll publicise this issue on our website and social media platforms and already I sense there’s a large nature of public support for the author of the book and the publishers.”