
                                            Transport Minister Joe Maswanganyi is appearing before Parliament’s transport portfolio committee to discuss allegations of state capture at Prasa.
                                         CAPE TOWN - Transport Minister Joe Maswanganyi  says the Passenger Rail Agency (Prasa) is making progress in implementing the remedial action proposed by the Public Protector. This despite a host of forensic investigations which are still incomplete more than two years since the release of the derailed report. Maswanganyi is appearing before Parliament’s transport portfolio committee to discuss allegations of state capture at Prasa. Prasa’s interim board has, however, failed to turn up for their first appearance before Parliament, angering Members of Parliament (MP). Maswanganyi says Prasa is meeting regularly with the Public Protector’s office as recently as last week to give updates on progress made to deal with issues of maladministration and irregularities. But he’s facing a tough time before MPs, who say too much money is being wasted on forensic investigations. This includes an investigation by Treasury of all transactions since 2012, over R10 million. By June, at least R148 million had been spent on an investigation by Werksmans Attorneys. The committee says it’s concerned about the legality of this contract. 'SIFT OUT CORRUPTION AT PRASA' Meanwhile, while Maswanganyi is appearing before a parliamentary committee, protesters are calling on Prasa to fix the rail network. Outside the venue, a small group of protesters from the #UniteBehind movement is picketing. One of the demonstrators, Vuyelwa Mati, says they want to apply pressure on government to sift out corruption at Prasa. “[We are] Trying to influence the people who are doing the discussion of Parliament to arrest people like Lucky Montana who are corrupt on the Prasa board. In most of our areas, you will find that the trains are not working because of the corruption that’s happening at Prasa.”