
                                            ANC national executive committee member Derek Hanekom says this consultative conference is important for the ANC.
                                         JOHANNESBURG - Despite the African National Congress (ANC) saying it has not sanctioned the ANC Stalwart’s consultative conference, several ANC leaders have described the gathering as significant for the life of the party. The conference this weekend is being attended by civil society organisations, business and several ANC leaders.  ANC national executive committee member Derek Hanekom says this consultative conference is important for the ANC. “We have to turn it around; we have to restore our ANC to its full glory. To its earlier glory.” Former Deputy Finance Minister Mcebisi Jonas says he pins his hopes on the Stalwarts for the life of the ANC. “But also you’re brining credible leaders, something that we’re lacking at the moment. And this is a very useful thing as you can see most of the people here are people who have served the ANC in most tough times.” Other leaders in attendance were deputy speaker of Parliament Lechesa Tsenoli, Former finance minister Pravin Gordhan and former president Thabo Mbeki. NOT SURPRISED BY DENIALS While President Jacob Zuma has denied the existence of state capture, some of his colleagues in the ANC say they are not surprised by the denial because he is implicated. Earlier this week, the president described state capture as a fake political tool created to paint a particular family and some individuals in a bad light. Jonas, who was one of the first people to lift the lid on state capture, said that those denying state capture are being disingenuous. “It depends on where you stand. Whether you’re a beneficiary or not, that’s the simple thing.” Gordhan said that denial is an inadequate response. “They have to deny it because they’re probably implicated in it and denial is the best form.” On Thursday, Gordhan said there are people who will be arrested after the ANC’s elective conference in December. WATCH: ANC stalwarts consultative conference kicks off  (Edited by Leeto M Khoza)