In 2015 Katy Perry performed in Taipei in a dress adorned with sunflowers, sparking outrage because the flower had been adopted as an emblem of anti-China protesters. LOS ANGELES - Katy Perry has reportedly been denied a visa to perform at the Victoria's Secret fashion show in China. The Chained to the Rhythm hitmaker had been due to take to the stage at the annual lingerie extravaganza, which takes place in Shanghai on Monday, but Harry Styles will now perform in her place after she was refused a visa. According to the New York Post newspaper's Page Six column, the 33-year-old singer had initially been informed she'd be able to gain access but the decision was changed when the government found out about her 2015 performance in Taipei, Taiwan, in which she wore a bright glittery dress adorned with sunflowers, sparking outrage because the flower had been adopted as an emblem of anti-China protesters. And Perry also waved a Taiwanese flag during the gig to show her support for the country, which has spent years at war with China over its independence.   In this photo taken on 30 April 2015, a local resident reads a newspaper showing US singer Katy Perry wearing Taiwan's national flag in Taipei. Picture: AFP. A source said: "She was initially granted a visa to perform at the VS show in Shanghai, then Chinese officials changed their minds and yanked her visa. "For every artist who wants to perform in China, officials comb through their social-media and press reports to see if they have done anything deemed to be offensive to the country. Maroon 5 was banned a few years ago because one band member wished the Dalai Lama happy birthday on Twitter." On Thursday, Gigi Hadid pulled out of the show with no explanation, and sources told the publication she had also been refused a visa, pointing to an Instagram video posted and subsequently deleted in February which had been deemed offensive as it showed the model holding up a Buddha-shaped biscuit and squinting her eyes to imitate the religious figure. Other lesser-known models have also had their visas refused, including Julia Belyakova, Kate Grigorieva and Irina Sharipova, while Adriana Lima's has reportedly been held up due to an ongoing "diplomatic problem".