
                                            A senior partner at McKinsey, David Fine, is the latest witness to testify in a parliamentary inquiry into allegations of state capture at Eskom. 
                                         CAPE TOWN - A senior partner at McKinsey has been grilled in Parliament about the company's relationship with Trillian Capital Partners and the R1 billion it got from Eskom for less than a year's worth of work. David Fine was asked to explain why he'd been invited to a Gupta family wedding and whether he knew McKinsey had partnered with a company owned by Gupta associate Salim Essa. Fine is the latest witness to testify in a parliamentary inquiry into allegations of state capture at Eskom.  McKinsey maintains that although the firm worked alongside Trillian for a few months at Eskom, the firm did not have a contract with Trillian. Fine told Members of Parliament (MPs) that when he became aware of a "substantial working relationship" between McKinsey and Trillian in early 2016, he grew concerned about who owned the company. “As soon as I had even a speculative smell that Salim Essa was possibly involved potentially with Trillian, I personally feel I acted with great strength.” Fine says he then took steps that led to McKinsey terminating any discussions with Trillian. Fine told lawmakers he doesn't know Essa or the Guptas. Although he was invited to attend a Gupta family wedding in 2013, he didn't go. Asked to explain the exorbitant fee McKinsey charged Eskom for 11 months of work, Fine conceded it was a large amount, but he was not prepared to defend it in Parliament. “I’m not going to sit here and try to defend that number, I think that number is large. I think it was a number that if it came to the public domain was going to be concerning. I think we should’ve had much stronger governance in place to give the South African citizen comfort that the way in which we were paid could be directly linked to value for money delivered initiatives.” Fine says the company intends repaying the cash because it does not want to benefit from "tainted money." Fine said, in his view, the company should have capped the fee structure. He has told parliamentarians he does not know why the Gupta brothers invited him to a wedding in Sun City. Fine stuck to the company’s stance by telling lawmakers McKinsey's own investigation found no evidence of illegality. He said McKinsey would not have worked with Trillian if it knew Essa, a known Gupta associate, was the majority shareholder. Fine said his former colleague Vikas Sagar withheld information about Trillian’s owners.