
                                            Nomgcobo Jiba was taken to court for the unlawful authorisation of racketeering charges against Johan Booysen, but NPA boss Shaun Abrahams withdrew the case soon after he was appointed. 
                                         PRETORIA - AfriForum says it wants to prosecute advocate Nomgcobo Jiba on charges of defeating the ends of justice for her role in the alleged plot to derail a corruption case against a businessman linked to President Jacob Zuma.  AfriForum and former KwaZulu-Natal Hawks head Johan Booysen made the announcement in Centurion on Thursday.  AfriForum says it will seek a private prosecution against the deputy prosecutions boss.  Jiba was taken to court for the unlawful authorisation of racketeering charges against Booysen, but NPA boss Shaun Abrahams withdrew the case soon after he was appointed.  AfriForum’s Kallie Kriel says Booysen’s troubles started when he began investigating businessman Thoshan Panday. “That is where the plot thickens. General Booysen decided to investigate somebody with links to President Jacob Zuma.” He says Jiba’s authorisation of charges against Booysen was unlawful.  “She interfered in an effort to protect President Jacob Zuma’s friend and to try and stop the case against Panday.” Booysen has been fighting the charges for the last five years.  POLITICS AT PLAY? Booysen says he and private prosecutor Gerrie Nel have been consulting for several months now, to prepare the case against Jiba. The advocate was due to go on trial, but prosecutions boss Shaun Abrahams went against legal advice and withdrew the case.  Booysen says he and Nel have spent many months preparing the docket against Jiba.  “It was quite a comprehensive task to compile this docket. Only when he was satisfied that we did indeed have a complete docket to proceed with the matter, that we decided to embark on the issue.”  Kriel has dismissed criticism that they’re playing politics.  “Yes, it's about politics but the politics is not on our side, it’s on the side of those that protect people because of their political position.”  The National Prosecuting Authority can now recharge Jiba or hand the case over to Nel to take to court. (Edited by Shimoney Regter and Zamangwane Shange)