
                                            This is the first time the ministers are set to meet for their routine weekly meeting with Mugabe since the military took power on Wednesday.
                                         HARARE - Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe  has called his Cabinet for a meeting on Tuesday at his State House offices, the chief secretary to the president and Cabinet said in a notice, the same day ruling party members plan to impeach him. This is the first time the ministers are set to meet for their routine weekly meeting with Mugabe since the military took power on Wednesday.  Cabinet meetings are usually held at Munhumutapa Building in the centre of town, but an armoured vehicle and armed soldiers are camped outside the offices. #Zimbabwe  Protest Pastor Evan Mawarire says, "As we pray today we want you to know that we don't hate Mugabe, but we want him to go, we want him to go well... so that we [Zimbabwe] can prosper, we can live free." pic.twitter.com/uV5s04ZVsC  With President Mugabe snubbing the high noon deadline to step down, lawmakers from Zimbabwe’s main opposition MDC party will be meeting to decide whether to join their ruling party rivals in the bid to impeach the 93-year-old. Although Zanu-PF has the required two-thirds membership to remove Mugabe, participation by the opposition could boost a process started by the military's intervention last week. Pressure is mounting on Mugabe to step down, with the war vets warning that patience is waning. Zambian President Edgar Lungu has reportedly sent former president Kenneth Kaunda to Harare to try to convince Mugabe to leave office in a “dignified exit”. There no longer appears to be a sense of celebration on the streets of the capital after Mugabe failed to step down on Sunday night and missed a midday deadline on Monday. The leader of the Zimbabwean National Liberation War Veteran's Association Christopher Mutsvangwa addressed the media earlier, saying Mugabe needs to realise that he has no choice but to go. While Zimbabweans can be seen going about their business as normal, there is the expectation that various groups campaigning against Mugabe will begin protesting soon. A prayer session has also been organised, but reports say plans are now underway to vote for his impeachment in Parliament. Those proceedings are expected to get underway on Tuesday Meanwhile, staffers at state broadcaster ZBC have told Reuters they’ve been put on standby for an expected address by the military. No time has been given for that address. (Edited by Winnie Theletsane)