
                                            The organisation was giving its message of support at day two of the conference in Braamfontein today.
                                         JOHANNESBURG - African National Congress (ANC) alliance partner the South African National Civic Organisation (Sanco) has called on the party’s stalwarts consultative conference to come up with strategies to keep the ANC in power come the 2019 elections. The organisation was giving its message of support at day two of the conference in Braamfontein today. It says it’s disappointed that the ANC has snubbed the conference. Sanco’s San Nkosi says they support the Stalwarts. “The mass mobilisation must swell and come up with a strategy to see how to keep ANC in power, depending on what’s happening in December.” As the ANC Stalwarts consultative conference enters its second day, there are questions around what impact the conference resolutions will have on the ANC. The party has distanced itself from the gathering with Deputy Secretary-General Jessie Duarte saying it wasn’t sanctioned by the ANC and the party’s logo must not be used. ANC Presidential hopeful Lindiwe Sisulu has admitted that because the conference is not recognised by the ANC, it’s resolutions won’t have an impact on the party. “But the ANC has said, through the Secretary-General, is that the conference will go ahead but its resolutions will have no impact on what the ANC does. So for them it is almost a conference that will have no impact on how we go forward.” But she says to her the conference does mean a lot. “If we’re able to find out from those people who have been disillusioned with us, we’ll emerge post-December with a much more united ANC.” Sisulu says as someone who has presidential ambitions it’s important that she listens to concerns raised by the Stalwarts. RESTORE OUR ANC Meanwhile, despite the ANC saying it has not sanctioned the ANC Stalwart’s consultative conference, several ANC leaders have described the gathering as significant for the life of the party. ANC national executive committee member Derek Hanekom says this consultative conference is important for the ANC. “We have to turn it around; we have to restore our ANC to its full glory. To its earlier glory.” Former Deputy Finance Minister Mcebisi Jonas says he pins his hopes on the Stalwarts for the life of the ANC. “But also you’re brining credible leaders, something that we’re lacking at the moment. And this is a very useful thing as you can see most of the people here are people who have served the ANC in most tough times.” Other leaders in attendance were deputy speaker of Parliament Lechesa Tsenoli, Former finance minister Pravin Gordhan and former president Thabo Mbeki. (Edited by Leeto M Khoza)