
                                            Super Zuma says Ramaphosa’s announcement of names shows new and dangerous tendencies which seek to redefine the character of the ANC.
                                         DURBAN - The African National Congress (ANC) in KwaZulu-Natal has slammed Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa for announcing Naledi Pandor as his running mate, describing it as a blatant betrayal of the decision to overcome slate politics. The provincial leadership has held a briefing on the state of the organisation and preparations for the elective conference. The KZN executive is also preparing to return to court next week in an attempt to appeal a recent High Court judgment declaring the collective illegitimate. KZN ANC provincial secretary Super Zuma says Ramaphosa’s announcement of names shows new and dangerous tendencies which seek to redefine the character of the ANC. “It’s an expression of a determined and desperate fraction.” Zuma says Ramaphosa’s statement reflects the kind of politics that seek to pursue individuals. “And blatantly betrays the NGC’s decision on the need to overcome slate politics in choosing leadership.” With just weeks to go until the elective conference, the KZN ANC says it’s satisfied with how branch general meetings have been conducted so far. NALEDI PANDOR ‘COMPROMISED’? The KZN ANC has refused to be drawn into commenting on whether it believes Naledi Pandor is “compromised” in being the chairperson of an appeals committee deployed to the province. Earlier this week, the so-called “rebels” claimed Pandor will lead the dispute and resolution committee to deal with appeals in KZN. So far, according to the KZN ANC, 36 branches have lodged appeals emanating from branch general meetings. KZN ANC provincial secretary Super Zuma says they have their own committee that has been set up. “Nothing has been communicated to us, formally, on the National Appeals Committee and we can’t comment. We know that there’s a team that’s been established by the PEC that will be working on the existing appeals.” (Edited by Zamangwane Shange)