
                                            There are also reports that the Gordons Bay animal welfare clinic has been evacuated as a result of the blaze. 
                                         CAPE TOWN - Four houses are burning in Gordon's Bay after a vegetation fire spread from the slopes of Sir Lowry's Pass. There are also reports that the Gordons Bay animal welfare clinic has been evacuated as a result of the blaze. Fire and Rescues' Theo Layne said: “There’s still an extensive area of Mountain Slopes that is burning, it has gone all the way to the R44 now and so far we have had four residential dwellings that have been damaged or destroyed.” A witness has described seeing several houses burning in the area. Marius Knoesen works in Gordons Bay and explains what he saw. “At the moment I’m on a construction site across the road from the old properties on Gordons Bay on the mountain slopes. And by the count of a finger, five properties’ have burnt or are currently burning. “Currently there is a lot of smoke in the air but I can see a few properties are burning I can see the flames coming out of the roof, out of the windows. They are burnt.”   About 200 firefighters and 33 fire engines continue to battle the wildfire. But they're not being helped by the fierce southeasterly winds that are whipping the entire Helderberg area. It’s all hands on deck and the firefighters are expecting a long and tiring night. Layne said: “The fire is still being fanned by very strong southeasterly winds. It is expected that firefighters will remain on scene throughout the day and night.” The smell of smoke is everywhere and a thick visible grey cloud hangs over the area. No one has been reported injured in the blaze and authorities are not conducting any large-scale evacuations as yet. A destructive wildfire is spreading towards Rooi Els and strong winds are fanning the flames. Layne says they're urging residents to stay away from the area. “The animal welfare in the Helderberg area had assisted with the evacuation of animals from some of the premises. The fire is not contained as yet.” 