
                                            Tom Moyane faced a barrage of questions from MPs when he appeared before Parliament’s Standing Committee on Finance on Tuesday.
                                         CAPE TOWN - The South African Revenue Service (Sars) Commissioner Tom Moyane has told Parliament he’s not responsible for the criminal investigation by the Hawks into top official Jonas Makwakwa. Makwakwa returned to work this month after being cleared of any misconduct but with the possibility of criminal charges relating to suspicious transactions in his bank accounts still hanging over him. Makwakwa and his partner and fellow Sars employee Kelly-Anne Elskie were implicated in a Financial Intelligence Centre (FIC) report received by Moyane in May last year. After a Sunday Times expose, Makwakwa was suspended in September. Makwakwa was also awarded a bonus of just under R1 million, which Sars claims was paid before his suspension. Moyane faced a barrage of questions from MPs when he appeared before Parliament’s Standing Committee on Finance on Tuesday. Contradicting a statement issued on Monday, Moyane says law firm Hogan Lovells did not investigate the criminal matters referred by the FIC. “It was clear they could not and it was not in their purview to deal with the criminal matters as espoused in the document of the FIC of money that is coming into the accounts… so that matter was with the DPCI.” Moyane says he’s heard nothing from the DPCI or national prosecutions head Shaun Abrahams. The Democratic Alliance’s Alf Lees was incredulous. “How can Mr Makwakwa be allowed back into Sars where he is dealing with over a trillion rands worth of money, how can that be possible? How can you sit here and think that the taxpayers and the voters, every South African in fact, can have confidence in Sars?” Committee chair Yunus Carrim has told Moyane senior ANC members told him they believe Makwakwa is being protected because of what he knows. Moyane is set to return to answer more questions from the committee next week. (Edited by Winnie Theletsane)