
                                            The Bulls will play in three warm-up matches in 2018, including one that involves a first-ever trip to the US to take on the Stormers at Stub Centre in Los Angeles on 3 February 2018. 
                                         JOHANNESBURG - The Blue Bulls announced a wider pre-season Super Rugby training squad on Wednesday that includes a number of new signings. Bulls Director of Rugby, John Mitchell, included new faces in Frans van Dyk and Thembelani Bholi in the group. There are a number of players included in the group that are still doing duty in club rugby in Japan and a few that still have Blitz Bok commitments. The Bulls will play in three warm-up matches in 2018, including one that involves a first-ever trip to the United States to take on the Stormers at Stub Centre in Los Angeles on 3 February 2018. The full squad is as follows: Props: Pierre Schoeman, Trevor Nyakane, Lizo Gqoboka, Conraad van Vuuren, John-Roy Jenkinson, Frans van Wyk, Mox Mxoli, Matthys Basson, Gerhard Steenekamp (apprentice, injured). Hookers: Jaco Visagie, Adriaan Strauss, Edgar Marutlulle, Johan Grobbelaar, Jan-Henning Campher, Corniel Els (injured) Locks: Jason Jenkins, RG Snyman (both Japan), Lood de Jager, Aston Fortuin, Ruben van Heerden, Eli Snyman, Abongile Nonkontwana. Loose Forwards: Roelof Smit, Jacques Potgieter (Japan), Hanro Liebenberg, Ruan Steenkamp (injured), Jannes Kirsten, Nic de Jager (Japan), Hendré Stassen (injured), Tim Agaba (SA Sevens), Thembelani Bholi, Shaun Adendorff, Boom Prinsloo, Denzil Hill (apprentice), Eduan Lubbe (apprentice), Jaco Bezuidenhout (apprentice), Kwezi Mafu (apprentice), Ryno Pieterse (apprentice). Scrumhalves: Ivan van Zyl (injured), Andre Warner, Embrose Papier, Theo Maree, Rudy Paige. Flyhalves: Handre Pollard, Marnitz Boshoff, Manie Libbok, Tony Jantjies, Tinus de Beer. Midfielders: Jesse Kriel, Dries Swanepoel, Johnny Kotze, Ulrich Beyers, Stedman Gans (SA 7s), Burger Odendaal, Francois Brummer (Japan), JT Jackson (injured). Outside backs: Warrick Gelant, Travis Ismaiel, Jamba Ulengo, Duncan Matthews, Jade Stighling, Franco Naude, Divan Rossouw, Andell Loubser (apprentice).