
                                            Judasa has launched a social media campaign called #UnemployedDoctors to raise awareness about more than 280 final year medical students who don't have placements. 
                                         CAPE TOWN - The Junior Doctors Association of South Africa (Judasa) says nearly 300 medical students are still uncertain about their future. Judasa has launched a social media campaign called #UnemployedDoctors to raise awareness about more than 280 final year medical students who don't have placements for a medical internship next year. Sonja Stocks, Ali Bashall and Chad Marthinussen are among the nearly 300 students who still don't have a placement for next year due to a post-deficit. They feature in a social media call for more intern posts in the Western Cape, KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng. There has been a delay in the placement process, which involves universities posting the number of expected graduates; provinces submitting the number of funded posts and the verification of students who have to work back hours due to bursaries. Judasa's Western Cape chair Farah Jawitz said: “It started in August and the first-round results were released at the beginning of November. So, we’re now sitting in a place where the people that weren’t placed in the first round have now been second rounded. We’re meant to be opening our second round phase of applications.” Below  are some tweets from the hashtag Doctors awaiting internship and community service posts cannot legally find alternative employment until completion of these years. @HealthZA has not, however, made posts available to over 800 of these doctors. Loss of income. Loss of health services. #unemployeddoctors  Right now 283 interns plus 219 foreign medical students along with 316 comm serves are unplaced that's 818 #UnemployedDoctors in a country with a critical shortage of dr's!  So final year medical students across the country finish their exams this week. Such a shame that 300 odd newly qualified doctors still haven’t received their placements. Strange. Thought we had a dr shortage? #unemployeddoctors  @helenzille @HealthZA The NDOH has missed every single deadline to place new doctors, and is yet to fill the 280+ post deficit. Helen you need to get involved and make sure our #UnemployedDoctors get placed and employed! 