
                                            Regular props Tendai Mtawarira and Coenie Oosthuizen return to the front row. 
                                         CAPE TOWN - Springbok  coach Allister Coetzee has made three changes to his starting XV to face Ireland on Saturday from the team that lost narrowly to the All Blacks in October. Regular props Tendai Mtawarira and Coenie Oosthuizen return to the front row, while inside centre Damian de Allende comes in for Jan Serfonrtein for the Test at the Aviva Stadium in Dublin. Mtawarira, the team’s most experienced player with 95 Test caps, comes back into the starting line-up at loosehead prop for the impressive Steven Kitshoff, who will move back to the bench. Coetzee said: “Modern day rugby is about using 23 players effectively, and having Kitshoff coming off the bench with 30 minutes to play has worked well for us this season.” Oosthuizen has recovered from an arm fracture sustained against the Wallabies which halted a superb period of form for the Sharks front ranker. He takes over the tighthead position from Ruan Dreyer, who has been left out the of match days quad completely, with Coetzee continuing with the young Wilco Louw. Louw has enjoyed an excellent breakthrough year. He was solid against the All Blacks off the bench, while he also played 77 minutes in the Currie Cup final in what was a much talked about scrumming exhibition from the youngster. There is only one change in the backline, with de Allende earning a first start of the season as replacement for Serfontein, who has played in all previous nine Bok matches of the year.  Serfontein has moved to French club Montpellier and has asked not to be considered for the month-long European tour. Ireland 15 Rob Kearney;14 Andrew Conway,13 Robbie Henshaw,12 Bundee Aki,11 Jacob Stockdale;10 Johnny Sexton,9 Conor Murray;8 CJ Stander,7 Sean O'Brien,6 Peter O'Mahony;5 Devin Toner,4 Iain Henderson;3 Tadhg Furlong,2 Rory Best (captain),1 Cian Healy Substitutes:16 Rob Herring,17 Dave Kilcoyne,18 John Ryan,19 James Ryan,20 Rhys Ruddock,21 Kieran Marmion,22 Joey Carbery,23 Darren Sweetnam South Africa 15 Andries Coetzee,14 Dillyn Leyds,13 Jesse Kriel,12 Damian de Allende,11 Courtnall Skosan,10 Elton Jantjies,9 Ross Cronje,8 Francois Louw,7 Pieter-Steph du Toit,6, Siya Kolisi,5 Lood de Jager,4 Eben Etzebeth (captain),3 Coenie Oosthuizen,2 Malcolm Marx,1 Tendai Mtawarira Substitutes:16 Bongi Mbonambi,17 Steven Kitshoff,18 Wilco Louw,19 Franco Mostert,20 Uzair Cassiem,21 Rudy Paige,22 Handre Pollard,23 Francois Venter