
                                            Tom Moyane insisted he did everything he was supposed to and the criminal probe into Jonas Makwakwa was an entirely separate process.
                                         CAPE TOWN - South African Revenue Service (Sars) Commissioner Tom Moyane says he hasn’t a clue about the status of the Hawks’ investigation into one of his most senior officials Jonas Makwakwa who was implicated by the Financial Intelligence Centre (FIC) in suspicious transactions. Makwakwa was controversially reinstated by Moyane this month. Moyane was grilled at a meeting of Parliament’s Standing Committee on Finance on Tuesday on his handling of the matter. It emerged during the meeting that the investigation into Makwakwa by international law firm Hogan Lovells dealt only with whether or not he was guilty of violating Sars policies or code of conduct. This was because the criminal investigation was in the hands of the Hawks. Makwakwa was cleared of any misconduct at a subsequent disciplinary hearing. Committee Chairperson Yunus Carrim has told Moyane that senior African National Congress (ANC) members of the party believe Makwakwa is being protected. “Senior members of the ANC NEC raised this with me. There is a belief that Mr Makwakwa is being protected, because of what he knows…” Moyane insisted he did everything he was supposed to do and that the criminal investigation into Makwakwa was an entirely separate process. “As to what stage are the processes of investigation, I have no clue. And I’m not sure… and if it is my duty that I should be going to the DPCI and saying where are you in your investigation, I think it would be unfair of me because that’s their duty and responsibility, because it’s a matter of high importance.” ANC MP Derek Hanekom suggested to Moyane that transactions amounting to R1,7 million in the accounts of Makwakwa and his partner, fellow Sars employee Kelly-Anne Elskie, should be very much of concern to the Sars commissioner. (Edited by Winnie Theletsane)