
                                            Natasha Mazzone has decided to go public about a series of strange occurrences that began after she and other members of the Public Enterprises Portfolio Committee began digging into the affairs at Eskom.
                                         CAPE TOWN - As Parliament's Eskom  inquiry attempts to get to the bottom of the rot at the state-owned enterprise, there are allegations of behind-the-scenes attempts to intimidate and bribe those involved in the probe. Reports of an alleged attempt by State Security Minister Bongani Bongo to bribe the inquiry's evidence leader was followed by claims that a Democratic Alliance (DA) Member of Parliament has been the target of intimidation tactics. Natasha Mazzone says she doesn't know who tampered with her car and rifled through her parliamentary office but she suspects it's related to the inquiry. Mazzone has decided to go public about a series of strange occurrences that began after she and other members of the Public Enterprises Portfolio Committee began digging into the affairs at Eskom. “I've never had anything like this happen to me before, so one can only assume that we put two and two together, especially given the fact that an Eskom file was left on my seat and also all my documents have been gone through.” Mazzone believes she was followed home on one occasion, and in another incident, someone gained entry to her car while it was parked. “The handbrake had been left down, the car had been moved and the door had been left open. I had an Eskom file in my car and it had been left on my front seat.” The DA says it's raised its security concerns with officials in Parliament. Parliament's spokesperson has been unavailable to comment on Monday afternoon. At the same time, Eskom's interim chairperson Zethembe Khoza has rejected with contempt allegations that he instructed then ANC MP Bongani Bongo to bribe a parliamentary inquiry evidence leader. Khoza says he's never spoken to Bongo, who has since then been appointed State Security Minister. It's alleged Bongo was told to bribe evidence leader Nthuthuzelo Vanara to collapse the investigation into the alleged capture of Eskom.