James Corden mocked his own movie career while presenting the Hollywood Film Awards in Los Angeles on Sunday night. LONDON - James Corden  poked fun at his own movie career as he hosted the Hollywood Film Awards. The Late Late Show presenter joked he was the ideal person to front the ceremony at the Beverly Hilton Hotel in Los Angeles on Sunday night because he voices Hi-5, a hand emoji in 'The Emoji Movie', which was panned by the critics. He quipped: "Who better to do that than me, the voice of Hi-5 from 'The Emoji Movie', currently available on Blu-ray with a Rotten Tomatoes score of nine percent? It's a match made in heaven, isn't it?" The 39-year-old star also mocked the recent spate of movie remakes in Hollywood, joking that the people behind some of them were "geniuses". He said: "What a year 2017 has been for movies: there was the reboot of 'Beauty and the Beast', the reboot of It, the reboot of 'The Mummy', the reboot of 'Blade Runner' - you guys, you've outdone yourselves! "I don't know how you do it, you're geniuses. Like the Donald Trump pee tape, I'm just excited to know they're out there and I might just get to see them one day." Jake Gyllenhaal  and Kate Winslet  took home the Best Actor and Best Actress prizes on the night for their roles in Stronger and Wonder Wheel respectively, while Gary Oldman was presented with the Hollywood Career Achievement Award. The event came just a few weeks after Corden apologised for making jokes about Harvey Weinstein's alleged sexual assault while hosting a charity event in Los Angeles. He said: "It's been weird this week watching Harvey Weinstein in hot water. Ask any of the women who watched him take a bath, it's weird." Corden later said sorry if he caused any offence, insisting he was trying to "shame" Weinstein - who has denied allegations of "non-consensual sex" against him - rather than "his victims". In a statement released on Twitter, he said: "To be clear, sexual assault is no laughing matter. I was not trying to make light of Harvey's inexcusable behaviour but to shame him, the abuser, not his victims. I am truly sorry for anyone offended, that was never my intention. (sic)"