
                                            The party has drawn up its draft impeachment motion ahead of Monday afternoon's discussion on removing the 93-year-old leader.
                                         HARARE - The ruling Zanu-PF says President Robert Mugabe is the reason for instability through his continuous firing of Cabinet ministers. The party has drawn up its draft impeachment motion ahead of Monday afternoon's discussion on removing the 93-year-old leader after he missed the noon deadline to step down. The party says Mugabe has shown disrespect for the rule of law and is to blame for the unprecedented economic tailspin over the past 15 years. The ruling party removed Mugabe as its president and first secretary on Sunday, capping a dramatic week after the military seized power last week saying it wanted to remove “criminal elements” around the president. Zimbabwe's war veterans say they'll go to the courts to legalise the military's action against Mugabe. The group's leader Christopher Mutsvangwa has called on Mugabe to leave state house. Impeachment could see Mugabe kicked out by a vote in parliament in under a day and would represent an end to the career of the “grand old man” of African politics, who was once lauded across the continent as an anti-colonial hero. In the draft motion, the party also says he's abandoned his constitutional mandate to his hot-headed and unpopular wife, Grace, whose tilt at power triggered the backlash from the army that saw it put tanks on the streets of the capital last week. Zimbabwean National Liberation War Veteran's Association says it will mobilise people to occupy the streets until the 93-year-old steps down. Mutsvangwa says Mugabe's speech on national TV showed he's delusional. “We saw him go to the national television and pretend as if everything is normal, saying he will be attending his party conference. We are saying: Mugabe go now, go now, your time is up.” He says while impeachment proceedings are held inside Parliament on Tuesday, the war vets will be stationed outside. “Please leave state house and let the country start on a new page. You should have the dignity and decency to spare the country further turmoil by simply announcing your departure, immediately.” 
                                                                  At the same time, Christians are holding a solidarity prayer session for a smooth transition of government. Devotees say while they are disappointed that President Mugabe hasn't resigned, they are confident that Parliament will impeach him successfully. Protest Pastor Evan Mawarire has spoken at a prayer session at the Africa Unity Square. He's told the crowd that a new day has dawned for Zimbabwe. “As we pray today, we want you to know that we don’t hate Robert Mugabe, but we do want him to go. We do want him to step down and go well. But we want him to leave this country in the hands of the people of Zimbabwe.”  Meanwhile, Zimbabwe's opposition MDC party says Mugabe's refusal to resign has dampened people's spirits and has called for an inclusive political process in the aftermath of a military take over last week.       (Edited by Winnie Theletsane)