
                                            The special meeting comes just weeks before the party holds the crucial gathering.
                                         JOHANNESBURG - The African National Congress (ANC)’s special national executive committee (NEC) meeting will enter its final day Monday as the party reviews its state of readiness and makes final touches for its elective conference in December. The special meeting comes just weeks before the party holds the crucial gathering. ANC NEC members spent the weekend discussing issues related to the party’s elective conference. Secretary-general Gwede Mantashe indicated that they want to ensure branches meet Wednesday’s deadline to hold their general meetings where the nomination of leaders takes place. Mantashe said the NEC will find a way to deal with court cases as well as disputes over BGM’s that may compromise the conference. While the secretary-general said that the issue of deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa’s announcement of his slate was not on the agenda, it’s understood that it may be raised today. ANC NOT WORRIED Mantashe said the party is not worried about certain court cases. The Eastern Cape, KwaZulu-Natal, Northern Cape and the Free State are litigating the outcomes of their respective provincial elective conferences- with factions arguing over alleged irregulars. The party has convened a special NEC meeting in Irene to finalise its organisational report among other issues. Mantashe is adamant that the court proceedings don't worry the ANC and believes the December conference will go on as planned. “We are working to hold the party’s conference from the 16th to the 20th. There’s nothing that says it won’t take place.” When asked about the state of readiness at branch level for the conference, he said the ANC has put teams in place to deal with appeals from branch general meetings. He said those processes should be completed by the end of the week. “We are planning a national conference and it will be a success.” (Edited by Leeto M Khoza)