
                                            Robert Mugabe had spent a week negotiating his departure with the military since the country's army seized control in the capital, Harare, and placed him under house arrest.
                                         JOHANNESBURG - Zimbabwe's defence forces have confirmed both former president Robert Mugabe and his wife Grace have been granted immunity from prosecution, meaning the couple will be allowed to remain in the country. Mugabe resigned on Tuesday, in a historic moment that brought his 37 years of oppressive rule to an end. He’s also been assured that his safety will be protected in his home country as part of a deal that led to him stepping down. The former leader has been accused of ordering a string of massacres in the early to mid-1980s in opposition strongholds to consolidate his power, in which up to 20,000 people were killed. He's also long been accused of corruption to finance his lavish lifestyle, as his government drove the once-prosperous nation into economic ruin and poverty. Mugabe had spent a week negotiating his departure with the military since the country's army seized control in the capital, Harare, and placed him under house arrest. Mugabe’s former right-hand man Emmerson Mnangagwa returned to the country on Wednesday night to take the reins as interim president. 
                                                                  At the same time, the opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) has made its first official comment since Mugabe resigned as president. MDC has urged the new government to dismantle all pillars of repression and oppression that it says have been put in place by Mugabe. In a statement, the party says it remains firmly convinced that all pillars of the Mugabe dictatorship have to tumble. It says Zimbabweans are looking forward to a new and refreshing era of political tolerance and socioeconomic. The MDC says it's cautiously optimistic that the Mnangagwa presidency will not “replicate the evil - corrupt and incompetent Mugabe regime”. Meanwhile, it's emerged Mugabe told negotiators during a settlement with authorities that he wants to die at home and has no plans to live in exile. Mnangagwa is set to be sworn in as leader on Friday. WATCH: Mnangagwa: I pledge myself to be your servant  ‘STAY CALM’ Zimbabwe's incoming president Mnangagwa has called on citizens to remain peaceful and desist from any form of "vengeful retribution”. Mnangagwa’s supporters were angered by his dismissal early in November, a move that triggered the military to intervene.  Some of the supporters have been calling for unspecified action against the G40 group that backed Mugabe and his wife. (Edited by Winnie Theletsane)