
                                            Daniels' jaw-dropping testimony offers some insight into the shenanigans at Eskom and the Gupta family’s alleged influence.
                                         JOHANNESBURG - Eskom’s legal head Suzanne Daniels will remain on suspension until January when she is due back at the Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration (CCMA) as the matter has been referred to arbitration. Daniels insists that she didn’t lie during the parliamentary inquiry this week, saying that she stands by her testimony about a meeting with Ajay Gupta, President Jacob Zuma’s son and deputy Public Enterprises Minister Ben Martins. However, Martins has denied that he attended the meeting. Daniels' jaw-dropping testimony offers some insight into the shenanigans at Eskom and the Gupta family’s alleged influence. In response to her suspension charges, Daniels states that the allegations against her are aimed at discrediting the legal outcomes produced in her pursuit to protect the best interests of the company. The misconduct charges she faces relate to Eskom's contract and payments to McKinsey and Gupta-linked Trillian. Daniels has told Members of Parliament she attended meeting in July with Ajay Gupta, Duduzane Zuma and Martins where former Eskom CEO Brian Molefe’s pension payout court case was discussed. She insists that she did not lie about this meeting, emphasising that she took an oath ahead of her testimony but also that by virtue of being a lawyer, she’s an officer of the court. UNSURE OF WHEREABOUTS Martins has denied he was at a meeting with Gupta in Melrose Arch on a Saturday in July, but he can't recall where he was that day. Although Martins called a hastily arranged press briefing to deny he ever attended such a meeting, he told journalists that he would have to check his diary to know his whereabouts that day. When Daniels unwittingly found herself in a meeting with Martins, Duduzane Zuma, and Gupta, she could hardly believe what she had walked into. But Martins claims Daniels is lying. “I’m hoping that I will also be given a chance to appear in front of the portfolio committee’s hearings. Then one will be able to answer questions posed there.” Martins has met the Guptas on several occasions in the past. But he denies 29 July 2017 was one of them. (Edited by Leeto M Khoza)