
                                            The court heard that it is a legal requirement for the National Director of Public Prosecutions to ask to be released from his position and that the advocate never made such a request. 
                                         PRETORIA - President Jacob Zuma’s legal team has argued that former prosecutions boss Mxolisi Nxasana was not kicked out of the National Prosecuting Authority, insisting he asked to resign. This is among the arguments heard in the High Court on Tuesday afternoon where Corruption Watch and Freedom Under Law are challenging Nxasana’s R17 million golden handshake. The court heard on Monday that it is a legal requirement for the National Director of Public Prosecutions  to ask to be released from his position and that the advocate never made such a request. Advocate Ishmael Semenya referred to the court’s decision on Monday not to allow Nxasana’s affidavit to be admitted to the record because he filed it late. “So there is an uncontradicted account given by the president who says there was that request. The request was verbal, the request was never inviting and that stands uncontradicted. We say that must count in addressing the question whether or not there was a request.” President Zuma is not opposing the application that Nxasana's settlement and pay-out be declared unlawful but insists his resignation was legitimate. President Zuma’s legal team has argued that former prosecutions boss Nxasana’s decision to resign was independent of negotiations around his settlement payout. Advocate Semenya claims Mxolisi Nxasana asked President Zuma to resign, as required by the National Prosecuting Authority Act. “It is important to emphasise that Nxasana did not vacate office by reason of the impute settlement agreement. The settlement agreement was rather a consequence of having allowed Nxasana to vacate office after considering the reasons for his request." Semenya argues that if the court declares the settlement unlawful, it should have no bearing on Zuma’s decision to allow Nxasana to vacate his office.