
                                            There’s been speculation on whether Grace Mugabe has fled the country to Namibia or Hong Kong without any confirmation on her exact whereabouts.
                                         HARARE - Some Zimbabweans say they don’t care about the whereabouts of the country's first lady and are preparing for a mass meeting in the capital on Saturday. There’s been speculation on whether Grace Mugabe has fled the country to Namibia or Hong Kong without any confirmation on her exact whereabouts. President Robert Mugabe’s wife did not accompany him during his public appearance on Friday afternoon since the army took control of the country. Mugabe’s attempt to prepare the ground for his wife, Grace, to take over through the firing of Emmerson Mnangagwa led to this military takeover. Although the army said Mugabe and his family were under house arrest, there’s been speculation that Grace may have already left the country. But Social Justice activist Ostallos Siziba says Zimbabweans don’t care where she is. “The military is clearly with Grace wherever she is, so she’s safe because they have confirmed to us. Whether under house arrest or in Hong Kong, she’s there with a military personnel, same as the president. Things have changed for the Mugabe family.” Siziba says when the time is right they want Mugabe and his wife to answer to the International Criminal Court for their crimes. Meanwhile, Southern African Development Community (SADC) chair Jacob Zuma says the regional bloc is ready to provide support to the people of Zimbabwe to resolve the current political crisis. WATCH: Zuma sends envoy to Zimbabwe amid political turmoil  Zuma says he hopes the unfolding developments will not lead to an unconstitutional change of the government. He made the remarks before addressing the 4th Session of the South Africa- Botswana Bi-National Commission. Zuma reminded all parties involved to ensure that maintenance of peace and security is not compromised.