
                                            Many have fled the country's economic crisis seeking a better life here.

                                         CAPE TOWN - Tens of thousands of Zimbabweans live in South Africa.  Many have fled the country's economic crisis seeking a better life here. Trish Gwenzi has been living in the Mother City for five years. “I believe President Robert Mugabe has served Zimbabwe and has been a leader for so many years. I think it will be a good thing for Zimbabwe to come in and take the reins.” Perpetua Mchuchu, also from Zimbabwe, also believes it's time for new leaders. “We as Zimbabweans wanted change. We have nothing against our beautiful president. But we need someone different and someone with new ideas. Change will be good.” Mugabe’s fate hangs in the balance as he apparently resisted efforts to make him step down following a seizure of power by the army, until this week a key pillar of his 37-year-rule. WATCH: What you need to know about Robert Mugabe  The military said on national television it was holding talks with Mugabe on the way forward and that it would advise the nation on their outcome as soon as possible. The United States, a longtime critic of Mugabe over allegations of human rights abuses and election rigging, is seeking “a new era” for Zimbabwe, the State Department’s top official for Africa said, an implicit call for the nonagenarian leader to quit. The unfolding drama in the capital, Harare, was thrown into confusion when a smiling Mugabe was pictured shaking hands with Zimbabwe’s military chief, the man behind the coup, raising questions about whether or not the end of an era was near. Mugabe unexpectedly drove on Thursday from his lavish “Blue Roof” compound, where he had been confined, to State House, where official media pictured him meeting military boss Constantino Chiwenga and South African mediators. The official Herald newspaper carried no reports of the meeting’s outcome, leaving Zimbabwe’s 13 million people in the dark about the situation. WATCH: Young Zimbabweans face up to Robert Mugabe  Additional reporting by Reuters. (Edited by Shimoney Regter)