
                                            Stores and wholesalers are likely to be jam packed as South Africans shop for deals today but some retailers are also offering discounts online.
                                         JOHANNESBURG - If you’re planning to do your Black Friday shopping online, consumer experts say it’s important to watch out for bogus internet retailers. Stores and wholesalers are likely to be jam packed as South Africans shop for deals on Friday but some retailers are also offering discounts online. As stores brace for the inevitable flood of consumers ready to take advantage of Black Friday sales, some savvy buyers are determined to avoid the rush by doing their shopping from their desks. But just as instore buyers have been urged to be cautious with their bank cards and cash online shoppers have also been warned to be on the alert for bogus online retailers. Customer experience expert Julia Alfeldt says consumers can take certain measures to protect themselves. “Don’t give away things like your ID number if you’re in a process of purchasing.” She says unfamiliar URLs and spelling mistakes on websites are another way to test the legitimacy of retailers. Economists suggest consumers rein in their spending until after the announcement. Meanwhile, following a flood of complaints on social media about online site Takealot, the company has released an official statement saying. “We have temporarily taken down the Takealot.com website and apps due to the failure of a fundamental service within our platform, which has caused site-wide problems.  “We seem to have found the problem and are now busy working through a backlog of orders. We hope to be back online as soon as the site has been stabilised.  “We apologise for disappointing any customers who are busy shopping this Black Friday, and we’ll be back up and running as soon as possible. Customers can rest assured that thousands of Blue Dot Sale deals are still available and the sale only closes at midnight on Tuesday 28 November. Please see our social channels for regular updates.”   