Adele reportedly earned an impressive £9 million from album sales without even putting out any new music in the past 12 months, all thanks to the success of her album '25'. LONDON - Adele reportedly raked in £9 million from album sales without releasing any new music this year. The 'Hello' hitmaker shifted an impressive 50 million records in the past 12 months all thanks to her acclaimed LP '25', which hit shelves in 2015. Records on Companies House for 2016 reveal Adele's limited company, Melted Stone Ltd, show profits of £5.17million, whilst Melted Stone Publishing soared by £3.79million. In March 2018, the 29-year-old pop megastar's profits from her 'Adele Live 2016' tour - which began in February 2016 and finished in June this year - will be released, which is expected to make her earnings for the year escalate further. A large proportion of the singer's money has been spent on properties in London (£5.65 million) and Los Angeles (£5.4 million), between which she splits her time to look after her four-year-old son Angelo - whom she has with husband Simon Konecki - as well as a £4 million mansion in Sussex, East England and a property near to the sea in Hove, East Sussex. It comes after Adele reportedly turned down £1 million to perform in the Middle East in favour of pruning her garden. The singer has developed a penchant for gardening during her break from the spotlight and her friend, fellow musician Guy Sebastian, recently revealed his showbiz pal snubbed the offer to sing at two shows because she was preoccupied with her new hobby. He said: "I was with Adele's agent and two gigs offered her a £1 million deal to perform. "Her agent said: 'Nah, she's not doing it. She's busy gardening this week'. "Adele is often weeding these days." Adele hardly needs the cash as she raked in an estimated £52.5 million in the last year. In February, it was reported that Adele rejected endorsement deals worth almost $40 million for the sake of her son. She does all she can to ensure Angelo is kept out of the limelight and is believed to have rejected the mega sum of money to promote family-friendly products and the chance to feature her family in a reality TV series. An insider said at the time: "Adele could fill her whole year with these offers of endorsements and TV work without having to do any singing at all - the offers have simply come flooding in for months on end. "Adele is a top performer but her caring mum image is just as appealing to companies. "Her down-to-earth approach to her success and her maternal side are huge plus points for making films."