
                                            The EFF says no court of law in the world has ever found Mugabe guilty of human rights violation. 
                                         JOHANNESBURG - The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) has condemned the Democratic Alliance (DA)’s rejection of the granting of political asylum to President Robert Mugabe.  The EFF says no court of law in the world has ever found Mugabe guilty of human rights violation.  But the DA says granting Mugabe political asylum would be a violation of South African law and calls for President Jacob Zuma to make a public statement rejecting such an outcome.  The red berets say Mugabe doesn't need any passport to come and live in South Africa and as a party it will never restrict its relationship with him as an African leader.  Earlier this week, the party released a statement saying Mugabe must hand over political power to the next generation and should not allow his name to be used for the further degeneration of a country he led to political liberation.  “Zimbabwe has experienced a lot of pain and destabilisation over of the past two decades, lost its currency and displaced millions of its citizens due to economic hardships,” the statement said. The EFF added: “President Mugabe remains one of us despite his many mistakes as President of Zimbabwe.  “As a matter of fact, he does not need any passport to come and live in South Africa and we shall never confine our relationship with him as an African leader to colonially imposed borders.”  #Zimbabwe Despite ongoing talks between President Robert Mugabe and the army, Zimbabweans say he should leave office immediately. pic.twitter.com/KytI0USEqi  #Zimbabwe Young people say Zuma must leave Zimbabwe to its own plans and protect his own legacy in South Africa. They say Zuma must shut up, asking where was he in 2008... pic.twitter.com/YkXgGm2diJ  #Zimbabwe Plans for the solidarity march in support of the ZDF in removing Mugabe on a pamphlet. pic.twitter.com/nq7cDRLKGt  (Edited by Leeto M Khoza)