
                                            In an unexpected move on Sunday, presidential hopeful Cyril Ramaphosa announced Pandor as his running mate ahead of the elective conference.
                                         JOHANNESBURG - The so-called "African National Congress rebels" who took the KwaZulu Natal executive to court say they are elated with the addition of Naledi Pandor  to their slate. In an unexpected move on Sunday, presidential hopeful Cyril Ramaphosa announced Pandor as his running mate ahead of the elective conference. He has also urged members to elect other leaders including ANC Secretary General Gwede Mantashe, former chairperson of the party in KwaZulu Natal Senzo Mchunu and Gauteng Chair Paul Mashatile in the top six positions. Ramaphosa says these are credible leaders who can renew the ANC to its original state. Ramaphosa announced his preferred candidates to lead the ANC after December elective conference as follows: “Comrade Senzo Mchunu, secretary general, comrade Naledi Pandor, deputy president, comrade Gwede Mantashe, national chairperson, comrade Paul Mashatile, treasurer general.” Spokesperson for the rebels, Sthembiso Mshengu, says Sisulu's negative remarks about proposed names on the slate have cost her. “There’s been a lot of pronouncement by the other comrade whom we had been nominating for a while, up to a level where she openly declared that she is not prepared to serve under president Ramaphosa. Now, you can’t keep on nominating someone who is not prepared to work with someone that you so dearly trust and love.” #ANCrebels Mshengu on #LindiweSisulu: We couldn't continue with a cde. who even went as far as saying she wouldn't serve under Ramaphosa.ZN  #ANCrebels Mshengu says they're elated with Naledi Pandor's name being thrown into the race because she has a wealth of experience.ZN  MANIPULATION BECOMING A CULTURE The so-called “ANC rebels” who took the KwaZulu-Natal executive to court say they have no plans to interdict the elective conference but they're warning the manipulation of party processes is becoming “a culture”. The applicants in the case against the now illegitimate provincial leadership held a briefing in Durban on Monday afternoon to give an update on political developments. It says there are 80 complaints surrounding branch general meetings where nominations are taking place. Mshengu said: “People must understand that for you to keep telling lies that we’re planning to interdict the national conference, that’s lies. We have no plans of such; in fact, all that we want is that those who are manipulating processes must stop. It’s becoming a culture in the ANC that for you to emerge victorious, you must defraud the processes.” Additional reporting by Koketso Motau.