
                                            Zimbabwe has spent the second day with the military in control of the country.
                                         HARARE - President Robert Mugabe has met with envoys sent to Harare by President Jacob Zuma in his role as Southern African Development Community (SADC) chairman.   Photos on the Herald’s website showed Mugabe, General Constantino Chiwenga, Defence Minister Sydney Sekeramayi and State Security Minister Kembo Mohadi speaking with South African officials alongside Catholic priest Fidelis Mukonori. The South African officials in the photos included Defence Minister Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula and State Security Minister Bongani Bongo. The meeting at State House comes a day after the military took control of the country plunging the nation into a fresh crisis.  President Mugabe was escorted to State House in his motorcade, from his home in northern Harare where he has been held under house arrest by the army since Tuesday. WATCH: What you need to know about Robert Mugabe  There is no word yet on how the meeting with the SADC envoys went. They were dispatched by SADC chairman, President Zuma. Zimbabwe has spent the second day with the military in control of the country, and it’s unclear whether Mugabe has reached an agreement with the army generals on the way forward. Opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) leader Morgan Tsvangirai has called on Mugabe to resign, and for a negotiated transition out of the crisis. 
                                                                  'DESIRABLE OUTCOME BY A LESS THAN DESIRABLE MEANS' United State lawmakers are looking at developments in Zimbabwe. They have reservations about the military seizing power but welcome the removal from power of Mugabe. Maryland Senator Ben Cardin, who’s the most senior Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, says the removal of Robert Mugabe is a desirable outcome by a less than desirable means. He says US lawmakers obviously don’t like coups. However, it’s time for Zimbabwe to move on and he hopes it will find a democratic outcome. The Arizona Republic Senator, Jeff Flake, who made headlines in October slamming President Donald Trump as he announced his intention not to run again, expressed his pleasure at Mugabe’s departure. He spent time in Zimbabwe in the eighties as a Mormon missionary and wrote his master’s thesis trying to explain Mugabe’s hold on power.