
                                            Members of the board have appeared for the first time before Parliament's transport portfolio committee meeting on Friday, since their appointment by Cabinet last month.
                                         CAPE TOWN - The Passenger Rail Agency (Prasa)'s interim board says it's working full steam to deal with several maladministration issues that have been plaguing the agency for years. Members of the board have appeared for the first time before Parliament's transport portfolio committee meeting on Friday, since their appointment by Cabinet last month. The committee has been tasked by Parliament to investigate claims of state capture at the parastatal. A barrage of questions from Members of Parliament but little by way of answers from Prasa's new interim board. Chairperson Tintswalo Makhubele says she needs time to go through two forensic reports related to maladministration at the rail agency. But she points out that on the issue of state capture, Prasa is not specifically mentioned in the Public Protector's report. “Prasa was captured but not by that family that is referred to in that report. But by the employees themselves or the contractors. That's how we are dealing with it.” Makhubele has promised to provide Parliament's transport committee with the answers they seek, in writing. COSTLY FORENSIC REPORT At the same time, a controversial forensic report that has cost Prasa at least R150 million has been completed. Makhubele has confirmed to Parliament that she is considering the report and the way in which it was commissioned. But it remains unclear what its final cost is. The former board under the leadership of Popo Molefe came under fire for the decision to enlist the services of Werksmans Attorneys to investigate corruption at the agency. Parliament’s transport committee says the previous board left it with many questions, which, a year later, remain unanswered. This includes whether an investigation by Werksmans Attorneys was commissioned procedurally and whether it was budgeted for. Makhubele says the board is dealing with these issues. “Before I read a report, I want to see the letter of appointment, I want to see the terms of reference, the scope of work and, most importantly, the appointment process.” Makhubele has also confirmed receipt of a Treasury report into contracts worth more than R10 million.