
                                            For firefighters deployed to the Helderberg area, it’s set to be another long day.
                                         CAPE TOWN - Firefighters are spread thin across the greater Cape Town area on Wednesday morning. Hundreds of personnel are still battling the Gordon's Bay fire that started on Tuesday, which damaged and destroyed five homes. #GordonsBayFire This is where the fire started yesterday, along Sir Lowry’s Pass. Smoke from the scorched earth still hangs in the air. MM pic.twitter.com/WJILeZffw4  Fire and rescue service’s Theo Layne says the Gordon’s Bay fire is now contained and there is no imminent threat to property of people. “We will have flare-ups occurring and there will be some smoke in the area, so we will remain on scene throughout the day to ensure flare-ups are dealt with.” #GordonsBayFire Some firefighters stationed in Beach Road. MM pic.twitter.com/sWOihiXtF5  There’s a large plume of smoke drifting from the top of the mountain on Gordon’s Bay. Lower down, the wind is howling. Firefighters say the winds died down somewhat overnight but started up again this morning, earlier than they had expected. #GordonsBayFire Strong winds in Gordon’s Bay this morning.The air is filled with smoke from the fire on the mountain slopes.@MoniqueMortlock pic.twitter.com/VibgY0kjvo  With another hot day ahead and strong wind fanning the blaze, it’s unlikely that the blaze will be stopped any time soon. There have been no formal evacuations, but residential areas are in the line of fire. Meanwhile, strong winds buffeting the False Bay area are preventing fire teams from bringing a runaway blaze under control. The fire started in the Red Hill area on Tuesday and was, at one stage, threatening an informal settlement. The fire raged all the way to Scarborough. Layne says the wind is hampering firefighting efforts. “The fire that was confined in a certain area is not properly under control as we would want it.” (Edited by Shimoney Regter)