Morrissey believes Harvey Weinstein and Kevin Spacey may have just been making 'a pathetic attempt at courtship' towards their alleged victims. LONDON - Morrissey has seemingly defended Kevin Spacey and Harvey Weinstein again, insisting what some people view as sexual harassment could just be a "pathetic attempt at courtship". The 58-year-old singer has refused to condemn the media mogul and the House of Cards actor following the multiple accusations of sexual misconduct they have faced because he insists their actions could have just been misinterpreted. Asked about the alleged behaviour of the two men, he told the Sunday Times magazine: "You must be careful as far as 'sexual harassment' is concerned because often it can be just a pathetic attempt at courtship." Though he admitted people may have been through "horrific" ordeals, he believes the situation should be kept "in proportion". He added: "I'm sure it's horrific, but we have to keep everything in proportion. Do you not agree? I have never been sexually harassed, I might add." His comments come after he previously admitted he felt Spacey had been "needlessly attacked" following Anthony Rapp's claims the actor tried to seduce him at a party in his house in 1986 when he was just 14, an allegation which the star said he was "beyond horrified" to hear, but didn't remember. When asked what he thought about Spacey being replaced in All the Money in the World following the allegations, Morrissey told German newspaper Der Spiege recently: "I think that's ridiculous. As far as I know, he was in the bedroom with a 14-year-old. "Kevin Spacey was 26, the boy 14. In that case, you ask yourself where the parents of the boy were? You ask yourself whether the boy sensed what could happen. "I don't know how things are with you, but I have never been in situations like these in my youth. Never. I was always aware of what could happen. If you're in somebody's bedroom, you need to be aware of where that could lead. "Because of that, all of that doesn't seem very credible to me. To me it seems as if Spacey was needlessly attacked." As well as Spacey - who offered an apology over the alleged incident, despite insisting he didn't remember it - the Spent the Day in Bed singer has also said to have spoken about the multiple sexual misconduct allegations made against producer Harvey Weinstein - but insisted he "hates" sexual assault. Speaking about stars who have claimed they were victims of incidents in hotel rooms with the movie mogul, Morrissey added: "The people know exactly what is happening and they are playing along. "Afterwards they find it embarrassing or they didn't like it. And then they turn it around and say, 'I've been attacked, I've been surprised, I was dragged into the room'. "But if everything had gone just fine and made possible a great career, they wouldn't talk about it. I hate rape. I hate sexual assault. I hate sexual situations that are forced upon someone. But in very many of these cases, you look at the circumstances and you think that the person, who is called a victim, is simply disappointed."