Jada Pinkett Smith has said her children have been her "saving grace", and she thinks of them as her "greatest contribution to the planet". LONDON - Jada Pinkett-Smith has said her children have been her "saving grace". The 46-year-old actress has 19-year-old son Jaden and 17-year-old daughter Willow with her husband Will Smith and has admitted she thinks of her brood as her "greatest contribution to the planet", as well as crediting the teenagers with being her "joy". She said: "I'm telling you. It's been my saving grace, my kids. We have a beautiful relationship because of it. I never thought that children would be my greatest contribution to the planet. But they are, they're what I'm most proud of and what I cherish the most, and my motherhood is what I put most on the pedestal of all the things I've done with my life. When I started in the business I never thought I'd end up saying that. Ha! I thought I'd win an Oscar and do all these creative things but, oh man, kids change everything. It's my joy. It is my joy." And when asked what advice she would give to new parents, the star highlighted the importance of getting enough sleep, in addition to remembering children are "their own people". Speaking to The Guardian newspaper, Pinkett-Smith said: "I would say just try to get those naps in. Nap when they nap, sleep when they sleep. And just remember that they're their own people. That was the big thing my kids taught me the most. Even though they're of Will and I, they don't belong to us. Just support and nurture what they show you that they are, and not what we project upon them. Children are very wise in that way, but you have to be willing to listen. Trust your kids enough to listen. It's hard to do." Meanwhile, the actress previously revealed she is still "learning" new things about her 49-year-old Hollywood star husband, despite having tied the knot 20 years ago. She said: "That's what marriage is about; it's work. You think you know the person you're with after 15 years, but that's just not true. I'm just learning more about myself and so is he. That is what this is all about, learning and growing together."