
                                            In a statement released on Monday morning, Maimane says that it is important for him to see the declaration.
                                         JOHANNESBURG – Democratic Alliance (DA) leader Mmusi Maimane has arrived at the Union Buildings in Pretoria to view President Jacob Zuma’s declaration of interests since he took office in 2009. It’s unclear whether he will be given a copy of the document, but the DA says that Maimane has a notebook in case his request is denied. Maimane’s visit to the seat of government comes after Jacob Zuma failed to answer an urgent question in Parliament last week about whether he received any payments from his friend Roy Moodley or his company Royal Security when he became president eight years ago. Zuma only said that any payment he received since taking office has been declared. In a statement released on Monday morning, Maimane says that it is important for him to see the declaration. Maimane says according to the declaration of interests, President Jacob Zuma has not declared several interests, including his home upgrades at Nkandla amounting to R7.8 million. Maimane says the papers also show that the president received gifts from international criminal court fugitive Omar Al Bashir during a 2015 visit to Johannesburg. Maimane says there are some gifts given to Zuma, including silver watches, that have no value attached to them. “And what we will then request going forward is that we are going to pier the information so that we get further information around the president’s private declarations.” He says there has been no record suggesting that President Zuma received payment from his friend Moodley or his company Royal Security when he became president eight years ago. Journalist Jacques Pauw’s book, The President’s Keepers, alleges that Zuma received R1 million a month for a certain period after becoming president. Maimane says some of the items declared include books from Russia’s Vladimir Putin and China’s Xi Jinping.  'DEEPLY DISSATISFIED' Maimane says President Zuma is required by the executive ethics code to disclose his financial interests to the secretary of government once a year and this hasn't happened. Maimane spoke to the media outside the Union Buildings after he viewed the president’s declaration of interests document. Maimane says the only mention of Moodley’s links to Zuma was Zuma's use of Moodley’s Durban beachfront property in 2016 and nothing on his alleged R1.5 million a month salary after his election. Maimane says he is deeply dissatisfied with the papers presented to him, saying they are poorly documented. “It’s clear that any function that the president had which were sponsored even by Bosasa were not declared in the public record. And it’s clear that there are a lot of issues that are hiding.” He says Zuma has contravened several executive ethics acts and will be laying a complaint with the Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane, requesting her office probe the matter and give suitable recommendations. 