Attacks on emergency workers have been thrust in the spotlight after an eight-year-old patient died when the ambulance he was being transported in came under fire. CAPE TOWN - Attacks on emergency workers have been thrust in the spotlight after an eight-year-old patient died when the ambulance he was being transported in came under fire. The paramedics were held at gunpoint on the N2 highway in Cape Town on Wednesday morning while rushing the little boy to hospital. He had been injured in a car crash. Metro EMS spokesperson Robert Daniels says paramedics were en route to Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital when the incident occurred. “The Western Cape government health ambulance, on its way to Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital, was ambushed on Borcherds Quarry. “The crew was gun pointed and robbed, and the ambulance was left immobile. Unfortunately, the eight-year-old patient passed away due to the delay caused by the robbery.” The Western Cape Health Department has that revealed several vehicles came under attack on the N2 highway on Wednesday morning. Health MEC spokesperson Zimkitha Mquteni said: “Early this morning, one of our ambulances was part of an attack that was happening on the N2, the vehicle was not ambushed on its own but it was part of other vehicles that were being attacked. The valuables of the ambulance were taken.” The City of Cape Town and the Western Cape government have now partnered to help protect emergency workers while on the field. The City's JP Smith says: “To protect ambulances, hospitals, schools, clinics and everything else … these are not our competencies to do. All the money spent on these functions detract from the core business that these spheres of government are supposed to be attending to.” There have been several attacks on paramedics. Since 2012, more than 200 attacks on EMS staff members have been reported. WATCH: EMS Attacks: Paramedic assault victims relive their attack  Officials say attacks on EMS personnel hinder the delivery of emergency healthcare to patients. Several areas, including Hanover Park, Nyanga, Khayelitsha and Manenberg have been identified as so-called red zones where emergency crews have been targeted by criminals. This means emergency personnel have to be escorted into a red zone area by police. PROTESTS Earlier this year, dozens of metro EMS personnel gathered outside the Khayelitsha Magistrates Court to protest against attacks that have occurred in a various areas in Cape Town. [FROM THE ARCHIVES] WATCH: 'Stop attacking us' demand protesting paramedics  But the following month, an emergency vehicle was vandalised in the Strand area. The vehicle was parked outside a paramedic’s house when a suspect who was driving a bakkie pulled over and vandalised the vehicle. A local neighbourhood watch group jumped into action and caught the suspect. During a separate incident in May, five people were arrested for allegedly robbing two paramedics in Heideveld. The ambulance crew members received trauma counselling after they were robbed at gunpoint. Last month, however, the Metro Emergency Medical Service reported a decrease in attacks on paramedics in the Western Cape. Additional reporting by Shamiela Fisher. (Edited by Shimoney Regter)