
                                            President Jacob Zuma's plan to announce free higher education last week apparently generated panic among senior officials in Treasury with reports that several other officials have threatened to jump ship.
                                         JOHANNESBURG - National Treasury says it's not aware of any other senior officials wanting to resign. It’s now confirmed that its head of budget Michael Sachs has stepped down. Earlier several reports emerged that Sachs decided to leave over President Jacob Zuma's interference in Treasury. But Treasury won't be drawn on claims that this pushed Sachs over the edge. Zuma's plan to announce free higher education last week apparently generated panic among senior officials in Treasury with reports that several other officials have threatened to jump ship. Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba says he's saddened by Sachs’s resignation but he's thanked him for his commitment to the national budget and excellent service over the years. The minister's spokesperson Mayihlome Tshwete said: “I don’t respond to rumours, I respond to things when I have the facts in front me. I don’t know of anyone else who wants to resign, I only know for a fact that Michael has chosen to pursue his public service in other areas and I cannot speak on something I have no facts on. So, no one has said anything to me about other people wanting to resign.” PROPER HANDOVER Gigaba says Treasury remains committed to a budget that focuses on fiscal consolidation while protecting the poor. Treasury says Sachs will not leave immediately to ensure a proper handover to another senior official. Treasury also says it has competent officials to take over from Sachs. Sachs has worked in the Treasury since 2007. He's played an integral role in the national budgeting process over the last four years. His resignation is the second major blow to the Treasury this year, following the resignation of former director general Lungisa Fuzile who left in the wake of the axing of former Finance Minister, Pravin Gordhan. But economist Thabi Leoka says Sachs's departure is unlikely to send South Africa into further negative territory with ratings agencies. “If it is that Michael’s departure is because of interference from a political perspective, they will note that, but it’s not a reason to downgrade us alone.”