
                                            The letter demands that NB Publishers withdraws 'The President's Keepers' from stores and retracts parts of the book.
                                         CAPE TOWN - The publishers of journalist Jacques Pauw's book about Jacob Zuma have received a cease and desist letter from the State Security Agency. The letter demands that NB Publishers withdraws the book from stores and retracts parts of the book. The State Security Agency wants parts of the book to be retracted but the publisher says their lawyers are now dealing with the matter and there's no intention of withdrawing the book at this stage. The agency has threatened to go to court to interdict NB Publishers from further distribution of his book _The President's Keepers._The agency has also threatened to lay criminal charges against Pauw and NB Publishers for violating relevant statutes including the Tax Administration Act and the Intelligence Services Act. NB Publishers says the book blows the lid off South Africa's gangster state and it stands by the author. Their attorney says they will respond to the cease and desist letter. The book claims Zuma received R1 million a month from a security company without declaring it to the revenue service. It also accuses presidential hopeful Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma of dealings with a notorious businessman. Pauw says he stands by his work, adding that he didn’t approach the Presidency or Dlamini Zuma for a reply because he felt it was too dangerous. “This is clearly not a work of journalism, this is not a story in a newspaper. But even the press makes provision for the fact that if the newspapers, for example, believes that publication can be stopped by asking people for comment, it is justifiable not to go to those persons to get their side of the story.” Dlamini Zuma's spokesperson Carl Niehaus insists they have no ties with Adriano Mazzotti. “Primarily this campaign is being funded and run through volunteers, people who do not demand payment for their time but we do it out of commitment.” Read the full document below:    Cease Desist by Primedia Broadcasting on Scribd 