
                                            A man, his pregnant wife and their three-year-old child died when a wall collapsed over their shack due to strong wind.
                                         JOHANNESBURG - The severe weather condition in KwaZulu-Natal has claimed the lives of three people from the same family on Saturday. A man, his pregnant wife and their three-year-old child died when a wall collapsed over their shack due to strong wind and downpours in their kwaMashu informal settlement. This brings to a total of 19 people who have died as a result of severe storm since last month, where 16 people were killed and property and infrastructure estimated at nearly R2 billion were damage. The provincial Cooperative Governance Department says its saddened by the incident. It has also urged communities to exercise caution as heavy rains coupled with hail and strong winds have hit areas in the coastal‚ central and northern parts of the province. Provincial department’s spokespersons Lennox Mabaso said: “Already we have a few incidents that have been reported as a result of this bad weather that we’re experiencing. The MEC sends her condolences to a family which lost about three members after a wall collapsed on their shack.” Earlier, KZN Cooperative Governance MEC Nomusa Dube-Ncube said the provincial  disaster management teams were on standby as inclement weather conditions are expected through the weekend. The South African Weather Service has predicted 80% chances of heavy downpour s, strong winds and hailstorms in the coastal and northern parts of the province. Dube-Ncube said the department has sensitised municipalities against oncoming risks and that measures are in place to deal with any eventuality. Mabaso said: “After receiving notifications from the weather service of severe weather expected in on some parts of the province, all disaster teams have been placed on alert to be able to respond in the event that they are required. We’ve already experienced above average rainfall since yesterday.” WATCH: KZN hit by heavy rain and flooding 