
                                            The SAPS has been without a permanent police commissioner since Riah Phiyega was suspended over the Marikana massacre.
                                         CAPE TOWN - President Jacob Zuma says a process to appoint a new National Police Commissioner is in full swing, but he’s not able to say exactly when an appointment will be made. Answering questions in the National Assembly on Thursday afternoon, Zuma said a new crime plan will be unveiled soon. The SA Police Service has been without a permanent police commissioner since Riah Phiyega  was suspended over the Marikana massacre and her contract subsequently expired.   The Freedom Front Plus’ Pieter Groenewald wanted to know whether President Zuma planned to make a political appointment or one based on merit. “Once again, we will appoint a commissioner of police who is competent, who will be equal to the task.” Zuma says this person will understand the crime situation in the country and its causes. “South Africans are not born criminals… it’s the social conditions that add a lot of pressure in terms of people becoming criminals and that’s what we are dealing with.” Zuma says bolstering forces in the Western Cape to deal with gangsterism is part of government’s increased efforts to fight crime. ZUMA DEFENDS BATHABILE DLAMINI President Zuma has once again come out in defence of embattled Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini and her handling of the social grants crisis. Zuma says he’s tasked Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba to find a solution to the impasse that has gripped negotiations between the Social Security Agency and the Post Office over the payment of grants. On Wednesday night, Treasury suggested that more political direction was needed to break the deadlock. President Zuma says as the chair of the inter-ministerial committee, he’s taking charge of the grant payment situation. “We have to solve it, we have no alternative because it has to be solved. So I’m aware of it, I’m dealing with it.” But the Democratic Alliance’s Mmusi Maimane says Dlamini is incompetent. “Why are you reshuffling every other month, why have you kept Minister Dlamini in her job?” Zuma says the Constitutional Court ordered Dlamini to implement a new grant payment system, and she will see it through. WATCH: President Zuma answering questions in the National Assembly  (Edited by Zamangwane Shange)