
                                            Emmerson Mnangagwa has been sworn in as Zimbabwe's president today.
                                         HARARE - Emmerson Mnangagwa has been sworn in as Zimbabwe's president following former President Robert Mugabe’s forced exit on Tuesday. "I, Emmerson Dambudzo Mnangagwa, swear that as president of the Republic of Zimbabwe I will be faithful to Zimbabwe and obey, uphold and defend the constitution and all of those of Zimbabwe," the new president swore. Mnangagwa arrived to loud cheers at the national sports stadium in Harare. Zimbabweans have come out in their numbers to witness the inauguration of the man who officially takes over from Robert Mugabe following a military take over which led to Mugabe's resignation this week. Several dignitaries, including South Africa’s Telecommunications Minister Siyabonga Cwele and National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbete, Zambian President Edgar Lungu and former Zambian leader Kenneth Kaunda are in attendance. WATCH: Emmerson Mnangagwa inaugurated as Zimbabwe's president  The crowd also exploded into a resounding cheer as Botswana’s President Ian Khama shook hands and exchanged smiles with Mnangagwa. Mnangagwa and his wife Aurelia - who is dressed in white - arrived to shouts of adoration from the Zimbabweans gathered at the stadium. The 60,000-seater stadium is coloured with church members who are dressed in purple, pink and blue attire. Mnangagwa, whose sacking from the vice president post this month brought Zimbabwe’s political crisis to a head, is now taking over after Robert Mugabe, 93, resigned on Tuesday, ending almost four decades of rule. The governing Zanu-PF's chief whip said Mnangagwa would serve the remainder of Mugabe’s term until the next election due by September 2018. But there are questions over how Mnangagwa will lead the country led by Mugabe since independence in 1980. Addressing a cheering crowd in Harare on Wednesday night after his return from self-imposed exile, Mnangagwa said Zimbabwe was entering a new stage of democracy. “The people have spoken. The voice of the people is the voice of God,” he told thousands of supporters. This Zimbabwean said it was time for change. "I am feeling good. This Zimbabwe is a free country for all. Mugabe had been ruling for 37 years and that was something else. Look now, everyone is happy. People are smiling. Maybe things will change over the next two weeks."  TRIBUTES President Jacob Zuma has congratulated Mnangagwa, saying he hopes with the support of the people of Zimbabwe he'll be able to steer the country through this transition period. Zuma has also paid tribute to former President Robert Mugabe for his contribution to the Southern African liberation struggle against colonialism and apartheid. Zuma says, in his meeting with Mnangagwa this week, the new president assured him that Mugabe and his family would be treated with the greatest respect and dignity. He says Mnangagwa also promised that Mugabe's family would be secure in Zimbabwe. At the same time, Mnangagwa has paid tribute to Mugabe during his inauguration speech and has assured citizens that land reform won't be challenged or reversed in Zimbabwe. Mnangagwa has also promised that elections will take place as scheduled next year. 