
                                            Kalidass says she has been victimised by other board members for voicing her concern about a candidate for the group CEO position.
                                         JOHANNESBURG - Rachel Kalidass has resigned from the SABC board, saying that she has been sidelined and victimised by other board members for voicing her concern about a candidate for the group CEO position. In a resignation letter, says she raised concerns about the suitability of candidates considered for the GCEO and COO positions. “Despite the GCEO candidate having allegations of fraud and corruption levelled against him during his previous employment, as well as a conflict of interest with a significant SABC content service provider, the majority of board members were in favour of having him appointed as the SABC GCEO. “I specifically requested for my dissenting view to be recorded, which was received with great hostility by some of the Board Members present. “The Board further agreed that evening to set up a “cleaning up committee” of Board Member’s with media experience, which would respond to the anticipated “bad publicity” following this appointment. “Considering the severity of the matter in hindering the restoration of stability and integrity at the SABC, I deemed it necessary to bring this to the attention of Honourable Members of the Portfolio Committee on Communications and/or Parliament. “On 4 November 2017, I contacted Honourable MP Mondli Gungubele to share my concerns. He was recommended to me by a former SABC Board Member. I also sent Honourable Gungubele the links to the articles which I had picked up, linking the proposed candidate to allegations of fraud and corruption etc. “On Monday 6 November, during a joint meeting of the SABC’s Governance & Nominations and Human Resources Sub-Committees, I was verbally attacked by Board Members present for, inter alia, “leaking board information to parliament”. Board member Ms Khanyisile Kweyama, indicated that she had received a call from the Member of Parliament concerned, indicating that I had made various statements, including informing parliament of the Board’s confidential process. “The Board Chairperson and Member’s present instructed that such disclosures should have first been authorised by the Board, and they considered such action to constitute a breach of confidentiality and fiduciary responsibility if not. “This conclusion by Board Members has impacted negatively on the commitment I made to the Portfolio Committee of Communications and society at large, during my interview process referred to above. “Given this fundamental difference of opinion between me and many of the Board members, I feel that it would be best to resign with immediate effect, as opposed to being side-lined and victimised, which I feel is now occurring.” View the full resignation letter below:    Rachel Kalidass Resignation by Primedia Broadcasting on Scribd 