
                                            The Black Friday temptation is real and consumers struggle with saying no to sales items. Follow EWN's guide on how to avoid a financial hangover.
                                         JOHANNESBURG – It is that time of the year again where you might push, shove and even jump at specials on everything! Ladies and gentlemen, Black Friday is upon us. Superbalist.com, the online fashion site and Old Mutual have shared tips on how you can capitalize and save money this Black Friday. Klyne Maharaj, Head of Brand at Superbalist, said the advantage of online shopping is no queues and no pushing and shoving. TIPS FOR WINNING AT SALES: Tip 1: If you are shopping online, set your clock for midnight on Thursday 23 November. Tip 2: Create a wishlist so you can checkout ASAP on the day. Tip 3: Do your homework - Get your hands on as many newsletters and flyers as you can. Like the Facebook pages and Twitter feeds of all your beloved retailers and monitor their bargains closely. Tip 4: Have a plan of action on Black Friday - Some of your purchases may be in the real world and some in cyberspace. A good plan is to start with cyberspace early and then head off to the physical shops once you’ve done the calm and peaceful online shopping. Tip 5: Check in advance if you can return your purchases - Most outlets, both online and physical, will accept returns for Black Friday purchases, it’s worth checking terms and conditions in advance to make sure that any purchases made ‘in the moment’ can be returned. Tip 6: Set a budget - Decide ahead of time what you plan to spend on the Black Friday sales and stick to it. Temptation is real and consumers struggle with saying no to sales items and end up splurging on items they don’t need. John Manyike, head of financial education at Old Mutual, urges consumers to be very conscious of what they get. HOW TO AVOID A ‘FINANCIAL HANGOVER’: • Don’t be an emotional spender. Always remember your financial goals and keep to your budget.• If you can’t afford it now, then don’t buy it on credit.• Don’t increase your credit card limit just so you can be part of the Black Friday frenzy.• Don’t be afraid to keep that calculator close to you and punch in every purchase to see if you are still within your budget.• Know when to stop!