
                                            Exclusive Books CEO Benjamin Trisk says as a business they refuse to censor books.

                                         JOHANNESBURG - Major bookselling chain Exclusive Books says it's interesting that it's only after President Jacob Zuma was asked direct questions in Parliament about the contents of Jacques Pauw's book, did authorities make concerted efforts to have the book withdrawn. Exclusive Books has questioned the basis of the request by the South African Revenue Services and the State Security Agency to have the book The President's Keepers withdrawn. The bookseller says authorities must go to court to argue their case and shouldn’t assume as government agents that books can simply be withdrawn on their demand. Exclusive Books CEO Benjamin Trisk says as a business they refuse to censor books. “I don’t know whether there is a misunderstanding or there is a deliberate desire to misunderstand. A day after Mmusi Maimane brandishes the book, suddenly there’s a concerted effort by the authorities to do something about it.” He says as a bookseller, they play an important role in the national consciousness. “It is our duty to do what we can to help the public make decisions about what they think of event events that are current and contemporary.” Trisk says this is not about politics, adding that he spoke to Pauw before the book’s release and told the author he believes the book should be sold.    Cease Desist by Primedia Broadcasting on Scribd  Exclusive Books says one of the few times it can't sell a book is when its littered with spelling mistakes, promotes hatred or is blatantly racist. Reflecting on the removal of media personality Bonang Matheba's book From A To B from shelves, the retail giant says it couldn’t sell the book until the errors had been removed and attended to. Trisk says it’s not their responsibility to do quality control. “We removed that book from our shelves and told our publishers that we could not sell it again until such time as the errors had been attended to. The publisher was very good about it and addressed it.” He says Pauw’s book has committed no offense. “We’ll refuse to sell a book that has as its only concern hatred of Jews, blacks or any other people; those books we’ll exercise some discretion on but a book like this, why should we refuse to sell it?” 