
                                            The party says if Mugabe is released from Zimbabwe, the process of peace and stability can be fast-tracked in the country. 
                                         JOHANNESBURG - The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) says Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe should be released by the army, come to South Africa, and complete his retirement here.  The EFF has condemned the Democratic Alliance’s rejection of the granting of political asylum to Mugabe.  The party says if Mugabe is released from Zimbabwe, the process of peace and stability can be fast-tracked in the country.  The red berets say they will never restrict their relationship with him as an African leader.  The EFF’s Mbuyiseni Ndlozi says, “We’re saying that president Robert Mugabe must be released, come to South Africa, enjoy his last years in retirement to allow the process of peace and stability in Zimbabwe to be fast-tracked without anybody using his name to try and cause instability.” The EFF says no court of law in the world has ever found Mugabe guilty of human rights violation. But the DA said granting Mugabe political asylum would be a violation of South African law and calls for President Jacob Zuma to make a public statement rejecting such an outcome. The red berets say Mugabe doesn't need any passport to come and live in South Africa and as a party it will never restrict its relationship with him as an African leader. Earlier this week, the party released a statement saying Mugabe must hand over political power to the next generation and should not allow his name to be used for the further degeneration of a country he led to political liberation. “Zimbabwe has experienced a lot of pain and destabilisation over of the past two decades, lost its currency and displaced millions of its citizens due to economic hardships,” the statement said. The EFF added: “President Mugabe remains one of us despite his many mistakes as President of Zimbabwe. “As a matter of fact, he does not need any passport to come and live in South Africa and we shall never confine our relationship with him as an African leader to colonially imposed borders.”  