
                                            Harare has been brought to a standstill, with Zimbabweans taking to the streets in solidarity with the army which took over the government earlier this week.
                                         HARARE - Harare has been brought to a standstill, with Zimbabweans taking to the streets in solidarity with the army which took over the government earlier this week. Thousands have made their way through traffic to State House, where President Robert Mugabe and army general Constantino Chiwenga held talks. Mugabe is said to be under house arrest, but made a public appearance at graduation ceremony on Friday. Those taking part in the march were egged on by bystanders who abandoned their work to cheer and chant slogans calling for Mugabe’s removal. One man says he was allowed to leave work early. "Today's more like a story day. It's like people are free to express themselves." Locals say they support the army’s take over, with some calling for the return of sacked vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa. GALLERY: The people have spoken: Zimbabweans call for Mugabe to go  #Zimbabwe [VIDEO] Its a celebration in Harare. pic.twitter.com/hxa2F2jNbK  #Zimbabwe Much anti-Grace Mugabe posters being waved around as people dancing and singing in the streets surrounding State House. pic.twitter.com/IMmkgTt7Il  #Zimbabwe [VIDEO] Zimbabwean resident Nicholas Chaknaentsa shares his views. pic.twitter.com/f7XznrZOfG  Meanwhile, some Zimbabweans in Cape Town are welcoming the impending change in their home country. Harare is at a standstill today as Zimbabweans are marching, calling for an end to 93-year old president Robert Mugabe's rule. The military took over the government earlier this week, after Mugabe fired vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa. Several Zimbabweans living in Cape Town spoke to CapeTalk host Mpho Molotlegi this morning. Leslie Mudimu says people in Zimbabwe feel safer now with the army in charge. "I think its rattled a lot of political analysts because they're flipping through textbooks going 'this is a coup, this is what's supposed to happen,' and then you have this picture of an army tank and people moving about freely. Everyone has been feeling so comfortable and so safe ever since thos tanks moved into Harare." Another Zim expat, Mabel Sithole has commended the way the military announced its intentions. "The military recognised that Zimbabwe wants to have visionary leadership and that Zimbabweans are peace loving people that want to work together to build a Zimbabwe that is prosperous. I think that was an important contribution in how they announced their intention." Additional reporting by Monique Mortlock.