
                                            This week the SA Weather Service said a steep upper-air trough would result in significantly cooler weather over most parts of SA from Wednesday and Thursday with the expectation of snowfalls on some southern mountains.
                                         JOHANNESBURG - South Africans are experiencing a cold snap that is affecting most parts of the country. This week the South African Weather Service  said a steep upper-air trough, having the potential to cut off and further intensify, would result in significantly cooler weather over most parts of the country from Wednesday and Thursday with the expectation of snowfalls on some southern mountains. Cold weather invaded the Eastern Cape, southern KwaZulu-Natal, southern Free State and the Northern Cape on Wednesday, spreading to reach the remainder of KwaZulu-Natal, the Free State, Gauteng and Mpumalanga on Thursday, accompanied by maximum temperatures in the mid-teens. SA Weather Services added that, however, very cold weather, characterised by single digit maximum temperatures (+9 °C or less), would dominate high-lying areas of the Eastern Cape and south-western KwaZulu-Natal on Thursday. Snow is subsequently spreading eastwards to include the eastern parts of the Eastern, where it will become heavy and disruptive (with respect to traffic and infrastructure) over the north-eastern mountains of the Eastern Cape (Rhodes, Barkly East) and Lesotho. Snowfalls of this nature typically lead to the closing of mountain passes, resulting in associated disruption to traffic flow. At the same time, Storm Report SA posted some images and videos on its Facebook page.     Twitter users in the Eastern Cape have taken to the social media platform to share images and videos.       It will remain cold and windy over much of the interior of South Africa on Thursday. The SA Weather Service said it would continue to monitor any further developments relating to this weather system and would issue subsequent updates as required.