
                                            For his last oral reply sessions for this year, President Jacob Zuma is back in Parliament on Thursday afternoon.  
                                         CAPE TOWN - President Jacob Zuma is back in Parliament on Thursday afternoon for his last oral reply sessions for 2017.  Zuma is the National Council of Provinces (NCOP).  Zuma says it is too early to take any firm decision on the situation unfolding in Zimbabwe. Earlier, NCOP chairperson Thandi Modise rejected a Democratic Alliance (DA) request for Zuma to be asked an urgent question on the military takeover in South Africa’s northern neighbour, saying it was against the rules. “I have received a request to ask the president a question on the Zimbabwe military coup.” Modise went on to tell the House that she’s turning down the DA’s request because the rules do not allow for it. Later, however, a DA member sneaked in a question, asking Zuma whether he supports the call for free and fair elections to be held in Zimbabwe. President Zuma says it is too early to arrive at any firm conclusion as to what will happen in Zimbabwe. “You don’t want to speculate… you want to see what is happening and take the appropriate kind of conclusion and decision.” Zuma says he’s still waiting to be fully briefed on the developments in Zimbabwe. “I think it would be too early to take any firm decision now, I’m sure the situation in Zimbabwe very shortly will be becoming clear.” The Southern African Development Community (SADC)’s organ responsible for peace, security and politics is meeting on Thursday in Botswana to discuss the military coup. Meanwhile, Parliament has welcomed SADC and government’s efforts in Zimbabwe, saying it hopes the current situation is resolved in an amicable manner. The institution’s Moloto Mothapo says Parliament’s presiding officers are hopeful that things will stabilise in Zimbabwe. “We’re trusting that the current issues facing the people of Zimbabwe are resolved in a manner which does not undermine but rather supports ongoing regional cooperation and economic development.” WATCH: President Zuma Q&A session in the NCOP 