
                                            Some interesting interplay from Pirates forced Sundowns into an error just outside the 18-yard box and Marc van Heerden stepped up for the dead ball.
                                         JOHANNESBURG - Mamelodi Sundowns went into their huge encounter with Orlando Pirates desperately needing to win, after losing three games in a row. Pirates, on the other hand, had the chance to go top of the table if they too picked up maximum points. Pitso Mosimane's men seized the chance better as they took the lead 90 seconds into the match through Hlompho Kekana, who's shot deflected in the box and found the back of the net. Just as the Buccaneers tried settling down to play their game, Kekana was at it again, this time from the halfway line. The Sundowns skipper, as he does best, smashed the ball towards goalkeeper and what seemed like a routine save for Wayne Sandilands, turned out to be a blinder for Kekana - the ball was fumbled by the 'keeper and went in 2-0 Downs. Coach Milutin Sredojevoc's men quickly dusted themselves off after the double shock and started knocking the ball about with some intent. Some interesting interplay from Pirates forced Sundowns into an error just outside the 18-yard box and Marc van Heerden stepped up for the dead ball. The left-footed full back wrapped his foot around the ball and curled the ball past 'keeper Denis Onyango, who could only but stand still and watch the ball go in 2-1 now to Sundowns. It was all Pirates for the most parts in the second as the hosts went looking for the equaliser and the winner, but chance after chance went abegging. Thabo Qalinge was at the heart of every Pirates attack, with the help of Thembinkosi Lorch, but the pair, along with Thamsanqa Gabuza, Mpho Maakola and Bernard Morrison failed to penetrate. The best chance of the second half fell for Qalinge, who popped into some great space but then with just Onyango to beat, the forward guided his sitter wide of goals, at point blank range. They were made to pay for that missed chance, as Anthony Laffor and Percy Tau later hit on the counter-attack in the 90th minute and from just outside the box, Laffor smashed one into the top right corner of Sandilands net, to seal the victory, in what was arguably the match of the season so far. Pirates dropped down to seventh on the log with 3 wins from 10 games and are three points off Baroka, while Sundowns are 8th with four wins from seven games.