
                                            President Jacob Zuma has rebuffed opposition efforts to get him to give the reasons for his 12th Cabinet reshuffle in October.
                                         JOHANNESBURG - President Jacob Zuma has rebuffed opposition efforts to get him to give the reasons for his 12th Cabinet reshuffle in October. Zuma is in National Council of Provinces (NCOP) on Thursday afternoon for his last oral reply sessions for 2017. Democratic Alliance (DA) members specifically asked whether former State Security Minister David Mahlobo was put in charge of energy because of his cosy relationship with Russia and to push through the nuclear deal. “The question of changing ministers is the prerogative of the president. There are reasons that are not necessarily to be known by people… if you want to know these questions you must win elections and have a government so that you can get to know.“ Zuma was asked why he had not released a record of decision of his latest reshuffle. “The decision is the record.” A question about whether he intended replacing his deputy, Cyril Ramaphosa, with Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma was ruled out of order by National Council of Provinces chairperson Thandi Modise. Zuma said ministers’ performance was monitored. “The ministers are not only removed because they’re lazy… that’s not necessarily the only reason There are other reasons that lead to presidents taking such decisions and therefore to try and find those reasons is really looking for a needle in a prairie.” ON ZIMBABWE Earlier, NCOP chairperson Thandi Modise rejected a DA request for Zuma to be asked an urgent question on the military takeover in South Africa’s northern neighbour, saying it was against the rules. “I have received a request to ask the president a question on the Zimbabwe military coup.” Modise went on to tell the House that she’s turning down the DA’s request because the rules do not allow for it. Later, however, a DA member sneaked in a question, asking Zuma whether he supports the call for free and fair elections to be held in Zimbabwe. Zuma says it is too early to arrive at any firm conclusion as to what will happen in Zimbabwe. “You don’t want to speculate… you want to see what is happening and take the appropriate kind of conclusion and decision.” Zuma says he’s still waiting to be fully briefed on the developments in Zimbabwe. “I think it would be too early to take any firm decision now, I’m sure the situation in Zimbabwe very shortly will be becoming clear.” (Edited by Zamangwane Shange)