The actress believes society increasingly embraces curvier women, but she’s still concerned about how social media encourages young women to strive for physical perfection. LONDON - Academy Award-winning actress Kate Winslet has revealed she worries about social media’s impact on young girls. The 42-year-old actress believes society increasingly embraces curvier women, but she’s still concerned about how social media encourages young women to strive for physical perfection. Asked whether she feels under pressure about her appearance, the Oscar-winning star explained: “Not so much. We have celebrated curves more in the last five years. “But I do worry about the extra pressure to be ‘perfect’ on girls growing up now. I’m obsessed about the misuse and potential perils of social media for our younger generation.” Winslet warned that sharing images of so-called perfect-looking women on social media can lead to other young women feeling self-conscious about their own appearance. Speaking to Harper’sBazaar magazine, Winsletreflected: “We need to be aware of how damaging to children’s self-esteem and the natural process of growing up certain aspects of this ‘sharing’ are.” Meanwhile, Winslet also revealed she doesn’t harbour any fears about ageing, as it’s helped her to secure grittier on-screen roles. The actress - who has a 17-year-old daughter Mia and sons Joe, 13, and Bear, three - said: “I don’t mind being 42 and not 22. I’m honestly OK not being sent scripts anymore where the main requirement is to be easy on the eye. “I’m loving playing women who are more worn-in because of life experience. And it takes away the pressure of needing to conform, which I’ve never been very good at anyway.” And despite already being a veteran of the movie business, Kate revealed she has retained her passion for acting. She shared: “I don’t want to be a person who won an Oscar and then disappeared off the face of the Earth. “I want to be the person who is still here acting their socks off aged 90. And you don’t get there by being complacent.”