
                                            President Jacob Zuma has faced growing calls from various quarters to step down, with people accusing him of contributing to the deterioration of the ANC.
                                         JOHANNESBURG - African National Congress (ANC) presidential candidate Baleka Mbete says President Jacob Zuma must be allowed to finish his term with dignity, saying that the president has led the ANC. Zuma has faced growing calls from various quarters to step down, with people accusing him of contributing to the deterioration of the ANC. Speaking on Radio 702 Townhall with Karima Brown, Mbete answered a question on whether she thinks the president is fit for office. “He has led us and he has contributed to the leadership. To say is he fit, I don’t understand the question.  “He’s the choice of the ANC, he was elected by branch delegates for two terms and we owe it to our legacy to let him finish off his term in dignity.” WATCH: Baleka Mbete Town Hall discussion  Mbete says she doesn’t have the-details to examine the veracity of Fezeka Kuzwayo’s rape allegation against President Jacob Zuma. She was asked if she believed the president’s rape accuser. “I don’t have the possibility nor the details that I have collected to examine the veracity, one way or another, I don’t. It’s a painful issue because I’m a feminist.” Meanwhile, with less than 30 days to go before the ANC elective conference, Eyewitness News is taking a look at the possible scenarios that may unfold after the vote. Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma and Cyril Ramaphosa still appear to be leading the pack from branch nominations across the country. This week, we examine what a potential Ramaphosa victory might mean for the country. The CR17 campaign has told EWN it’s not that worried about court challenges should Ramaphosa emerge victorious, saying if the nomination process is clean, there should be no concerns about legal processes. Three political analysts, including Mcebisi Ndletyana, agree that Ramaphosa’s credibility may save the ANC come 2019. “He will most likely be able to send a message that the ANC is on the mend.” Fellow analyst Ralph Mathekga explains what he believes is likely to happen to President Jacob Zuma if Ramaphosa wins. “He’s going to have to leave but the question is under what conditions will he leave?” The analysts also warn that even under a Ramaphosa presidency, it will be difficult for the ANC to regain lost trust. They say Dlamini Zuma's supporters may choose to remain in the ANC and fight back instead of leaving the party. (Edited by Leeto M Khoza)