
                                            Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba has highlighted turning around low confidence levels as the cheapest way of re-igniting economic growth.
                                         CAPE TOWN - Political instability in Zimbabwe could have a knock-on effect on South Africa's efforts to restore confidence in its own economy. Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba has highlighted turning around low confidence levels as the cheapest way of re-igniting economic growth. Raenette Taljaard, an executive director of Economic Research Southern Africa, says recent developments in South Africa’s northern neighbour could make this more difficult. “In the context of an inclusive growth summit, it is naturally of concern if there are broader regional developments that potentially have an impact on growth in the region, not only in South Africa specifically, but more broadly from a confidence perspective.” Taljaard was speaking in Cape Town on the sidelines of a growth summit on Inclusive Growth and Economic Transformation in South Africa. 'POLITICS DEPRESSING CONFIDENCE IN SA ECONOMY' South Africa’s turbulent politics are depressing confidence in the economy on the part of both investors and consumers. Hugo Pienaar of the Bureau for Economic Research was speaking at the summit.  Pienaar says that South Africa has previously experienced lengthy periods of weak confidence in which politics has played a part such as the uncertainty that preceded the 1994 democratic elections. Now during the Zuma era confidence levels are at historic lows. “I’m not suggesting it is just due to one person, but it is clear that politics is depressing our confidence levels.” Pienaar says it is true that some of South Africa’s trading partners are going through difficult economic times. “But our underperformance is most probably more due to domestic constraints.” Pienaar says a starting point for boosting confidence in the economy would be an improved leadership for the country. Meanwhile, political analyst Steven Friedman says recent developments in Zimbabwe are unlikely to spark an exodus of citizens across the country’s borders into South Africa. Friedman says Zimbabwe has been in trouble for years and that most Zimbabweans willing or able to would have already left. Friedman also says 95-year-old Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe has not been in charge of affairs of state for some time and that the action by Zimbabwe’s military underscores this. “He got delusions of grandeur and decided he could choose his successor and they are just pointing out to him that he can’t.“ Taljaard and Friedman were speaking in Cape Town on the sidelines of a growth summit for Inclusive Growth and Economic Transformation in South Africa. (Edited by Zamangwane Shange)