
                                            ANC MP Mandla Mandela questioned the basis for the inquiry into Mineral Resources Minister Mosebenzi Zwane.
                                         CAPE TOWN - Mineral Resources Minister Mosebenzi Zwane is set to appear for the second round of questions on state capture allegations, but Parliament’s Mineral Resources Committee has yet to decide what form its inquiry will take. A political battle could be looming after African National Congress (ANC) MP Mandla Mandela questioned the point of an inquiry based on what he called “speculation and allegations”, while the Democratic Alliance is convinced that Zwane has a case to answer. The committee is one of four tasked to look into state capture allegations. It questioned Zwane last month when he reserved his right to not to give some answers, claiming the matter was “before the courts”. Mandela questioned the basis for the inquiry into Zwane. “You’re asking a portfolio committee of Parliament to sit on speculation and media allegations. I find it really difficult to then try and entertain what is the finding we’re hoping to arrive at?” Mandela argued for the scope of the inquiry to be limited to Zwane’s role as minister, although the allegations against him date back to his tenure in the free state provincial government. “We have to ask ourselves of what real importance this is to the people of South Africa in terms of Mineral Resources. Is there anything we have found to be unjust that the minister has done in that regard?" The committee wants a date by Friday as to when Zwane will be available for a fresh round of questions following his appearance on 18 October. Members will then debate what to do next. The DA James Lorimer says it’s up to the committee to decide on the form the inquiry will take and its scope. “It seems the committee gets to choose. Then it becomes a political decision. Does the committee think there is a case to answer? The DA thinks there is a case to answer. We should proceed to a full inquiry, a quasi-judicial inquiry.” (Edited by Shimoney Regter)