
                                            Head of the liberation war veterans Chris Mutsvangwa says Zimbabwe’s ruling Zanu-PF will remove Mugabe as its leader at a special meeting of its central committee today.
                                         HARARE - More reports of the imminent removal of Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe are coming to light.  Head of the liberation war veterans Chris Mutsvangwa says Zimbabwe’s ruling Zanu-PF will remove Mugabe as its leader at a special meeting of its central committee on Sunday. Reuters is reporting that Mutsvangwa, who’s led the campaign to oust Zimbabwe’s ruler of the last 37-years, said the meeting would also reinstate the axed vice president. Following the army’s take over earlier this week, citizens took to the streets on Saturday calling for Mugabe’s downfall. Following the peaceful protest in Harare, Zimbabweans said they are satisfied they have sent a clear message to Mugabe and his wife Grace to leave the highest office of the land. Thousands marched through the streets of Harare in support of the military who took over government following the sacking of vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa. Zimbabweans say they are ready for a new president. Zimbabweans did not hold back their punches, publicly displaying their disdain towards Mugabe and his wife grace. Some held placards bearing the image of a sleeping Mugabe with the words: “Mugabe Must Rest Now” written on them. Others directed their blows towards the first lady with posters that read: “Gucci Grace Must Go” This protester said he believes Mugabe got the message. “You look around you my friend, this is a clear message. He knows and he won’t go back today.” Zimbabweans say want the 18th of November declared national independence day because it’s the day they united against Mugabe’s regime. Who's who in the crisis in Zimbabwe?  ZANU-PF MEETING Zimbabwe’s ruling Zanu-PF party will meet on Sunday to dismiss Mugabe and reinstate Mnangagwa, two party sources told Reuters on Saturday. The sources said a party central committee meeting scheduled for 10:30am would also dismiss 93-year-old Mugabe’s preferred successor, his wife Grace, from her role as head of the Zanu-PF Women’s League. Shortly after the sources revealed the meeting, a motorcade left Mugabe’s official residence in the capital Harare to boos and jeers from onlookers, although a security said Mugabe was not inside. Hundreds of thousands of people had flooded the streets of Harare singing, dancing and hugging soldiers in an outpouring of elation at Mugabe’s demise, while others marched towards his residence. In scenes reminiscent of the downfall of Romanian dictator Nicolae Ceausescu in 1989, men, women and children ran alongside the armoured cars and the troops who stepped in this week to oust the only ruler Zimbabwe has known since independence in 1980. Under house arrest in his lavish ‘Blue Roof’ compound, he has watched support from his Zanu-PF party, security services and people evaporate in less than three days. Mugabe’s nephew, Patrick Zhuwao, told Reuters the elderly leader and his wife were “ready to die for what is correct” rather than step down in order to legitimise what he described as a coup. [Watch] Zimbabweans take to the streets, call for Mugabe to go  NO DIS-GRACE For some Africans, Mugabe remains a nationalist hero, the continent’s last independence leader and a symbol of its struggle to throw off the legacy of decades of colonial subjugation. But to many more at home and abroad, he was reviled as a dictator happy to resort to violence to retain power and to run a once-promising economy into the ground. Although Mugabe had been digging in his heels in the face of army pressure to quit, he appeared to have run out of road, devoid of domestic or international support. Political sources and intelligence documents seen by Reuters said Mugabe’s exit was likely to pave the way for an interim unity government led by Mnangagwa, a life-long Mugabe aide and former security chief known as “The Crocodile”. Stabilising the free-falling economy will be the number one priority, the documents said. The United States, a long-time Mugabe critic, said it was looking forward to a “new era” in Zimbabwe, while President Ian Khama of neighbouring Botswana said Mugabe had no diplomatic support in the region and should resign at once. In a sign of the depth of his demise, Mugabe’s ruling Zanu-PF called on Friday for him to go, according to The Herald, the state newspaper that has served as a loyal mouthpiece for nearly four decades. Zanu-PF branches in all 10 provinces had also called for the resignation of Mugabe’s wife Grace, the first lady whose ambitions to succeed her husband outraged the military and much of the country. To many Zimbabweans, Grace is more familiar as “Gucci Grace” on account of her reported dedication to shopping, or - in the wake of the alleged assault in September on a South African model - “Dis-Grace”. (Edited by Leeto M Khoza)