The couple adopted a low profile during the pregnancy, keeping the news private for months before it was confirmed in February by the actor's close friend, Matt Damon. LOS ANGELES - Amal Clooney on Tuesday gave birth to twins, a boy and a girl, the first children for the international human rights lawyer and her movie star spouse. "This morning Amal and George welcomed Ella and Alexander Clooney into their lives. Ella, Alexander and Amal are all healthy, happy and doing fine," George Clooney's publicist Stan Rosenfield said in an email. He added cheekily, "George is sedated and should recover in a few days." Amal Clooney, 39, and the 56-year-old Oscar-winning star of films like Ocean's Eleven and Three Kings married in Italy in 2014, making them one of the world's biggest celebrity couples. Rosenfield did not say where the twins were born but the couple appear to have been spending much of their time recently in England, where they have one of several homes. The couple adopted a low profile during the pregnancy, keeping the news private for months before it was confirmed in February by the actor's close friend, Matt Damon. Amal Clooney largely continued her work as a human rights lawyer, addressing the United Nations in March and urging the international community to investigate crimes committed by Islamic State in Syria and Iraq. Nevertheless, celebrity news media speculated for months about the sex of the twins, where they would be born and in which country they will be raised. On Tuesday, social media lit up with congratulatory messages and "Ella and Alexander" was among the top trending topics on Twitter in the United States. Many contributors praised the choice of names as a refreshingly normal departure from a trend that has seen celebrity babies given names like Apple, Audio, Bronx, North West and Rocket. "Good lord, the Clooneys have given their twins lovely ordinary names. Shocking. And they call themselves celebrities...," wrote British journalist Nicola Jane Swinney on Twitter. Comedian Ellen DeGeneres posted a Twitter message saying, "Congratulations, George and Amal, or as I’m now calling you, Ocean’s Four." Congratulations also came from actress Mia Farrow and US journalist Katie Couric. People magazine reported on Tuesday that former US President Barack Obama paid a long, private visit with the Clooneys at their home in the countryside west of London on 27 May. George Clooney canceled a visit to Armenia for a humanitarian event this past weekend, saying in a message to organizers that "if I came there and my wife had twins while I was there, I could never come home."