A gunman burst into the Resorts World Manila entertainment complex, firing shots, setting gaming tables alight and killing at least 36 people. MANILA - Islamic State has claimed responsibility for an attack on a casino in the Philippine capital Manila that killed at least 36 people on Friday, the group s Amaq news agency said, after officials said there was no evidence of militant involvement.A gunman burst into the Resorts World Manila entertainment complex on Friday, firing shots, setting gaming tables alight and killing at least 36 people, all suffocating in thick smoke, in what officials have believed was a botched robbery. Islamic State fighters carried out the Manila attack in the Philippines, the news agency said.Most of the dead suffocated in the chaos. Fire bureau spokesman Ian Manalo said many guests and staff had tried to hide from the gunfire rather than get out of the building when attack began shortly after midnight (16.00 GMT) and fell victim to the choking smoke.Oscar Albayalde, chief of the capital's police office, said those who died were in the casino's main gaming area. What caused their deaths is the thick smoke, he told reporters. The room was carpeted and of course the tables, highly combustible. A Resorts World Manila official said the dead included 22 guests.DEATH IN ROOM 510At dawn, the body of the suspected gunman was found in a hotel room in the smouldering complex, which is close to Ninoy Aquino International Airport and an air force base, police said. He burned himself inside the hotel room 510, national police chief Ronald dela Rosa told a news conference. He lay down on the bed, covered himself in a thick blanket and apparently doused himself in gasoline. Resorts World Manila Chief Operating Officer Stephen Reilly said casino security guards had shot and wounded the gunman - armed with what authorities described as a baby armalite - during the attack. Severe loss of blood from the gunshot wound significantly slowed down the assailant and resulted to his holing up in the room where he took his own life, Reilly said.Officials said at least 54 people were hurt, some seriously, as they rushed to escape what was at first was believed to have been a militant attack.Survivor Magdalena Ramos, who was a guest at the hotel, said people began shouting ISIS! ISIS! when the gunfire began. The 57-year-old said she hid in a kitchen and then fled when the smoke became too thick.Kimberly Molitas, a spokeswoman for the capital's police office, said 113 million pesos ($2.27 million) worth of casino chips stolen during the raid had been recovered.GUNSHOTS, PANICVideos posted on social media showed people fleeing as several loud bangs went off. Even the security personnel panicked, casino guest Jeff Santos told a radio station. Definitely, us patrons we did not expect that, everyone ran away. Jeri Ann Santiago, who works in the emergency room at the San Juan de Dios hospital, said patients were suffering from smoke inhalation and some had fractures. None had gunshot wounds, she said.The Philippines has been on heightened alert amid a crisis in the south of the country, where troops have been battling Islamist rebels since 23 May.Duterte declared martial law on the southern island of Mindanao last week and has warned it could become a haven for Islamic State supporters fleeing Iraq and Syria.Security was tightened around the presidential palace on Friday, with armoured personal carriers stationed on approach roads and river ferries barred from passing close by.Taiwan's foreign ministry said four Taiwan nationals were among those killed and a South Korean foreign ministry official said one South Korean had died, apparently after a heart attack.Shares in resort owner Travellers International Hotel Group Inc, a joint venture of the Philippines Alliance Global Group Inc and Genting Hong Kong Ltd, fell 7%.