At least 10,000 people had to be evacuated and countless residents have been displaced. CAPE TOWN - Authorities will spend the next few hours assessing the extent of damage to infrastructure caused by a runaway fire in the Southern Cape.More than 600 homes were destroyed in the blaze.Ten thousand people had to be evacuated and countless residents have been displaced.Firefighters are attending to flare-ups and smouldering embers, while authorities have rolled out an infrastructural assessment plan.Knysna fire chief Clint Manuel says firefighters are working according to a well-designed plan to tackle hotspots. By 5pm this afternoon we should have the two problem areas completely under control. We just want to put those fires out and secure it so that we don t have flare-ups; we ve got ground crews there working tirelessly and effortlessly and they are getting this fire under control. WATCH: Knysna fires claim homes but not hopeMeanwhile, DA leader Mmusi Maimane says the Knysna fire disaster is not a tragedy reserved for a specific race.Maimane visited the area to assess damage and offer support on Monday.He urged South Africans to support upcoming events in the town to curb the negative effects of the fire on the region s economy.The DA leader praised the efforts of organisations and residents to provide relief to those affected. Any tragedy that affects the people of South Africa, is a tragedy that affects all of us. Whether you live here or not, the reality is that these are the people of South Africa who suffered a loss here. Furthermore, these are South Africans from all walks of life. Knysna Mayor Eleanore Bouw-Spies also emphasised the importance of unity at this time.She says details around the exact number of people uprooted and their specific needs will be known later this week.GALLERY: Firefighting efforts in Knysna &amp; surrounding areas INFRASTRUCTURAL CHALLENGESThe Knysna Municipality says officials are on the ground attending to communities infrastructural challenges. A number of communities are still struggling with electricity and water supply disruptions. Municipality spokesperson Fran Kirsten says these disruptions are being attended to. We are working on the infrastructure, we know places don t have water and power, and Eskom and Telkom are in town. The public must stop phoning the municipality to ask about the water and electricity, they are plugging up lines. Mop-up operations will continue in communities where the threat of fire has been averted.(Edited by Winnie Theletsane)