President Jacob Zuma questioned why opposition MPs were now determined to change the voting process. CAPE TOWN - President Jacob Zuma has told Parliament he is not convinced by arguments that Members of Parliament (MPs) should be given the chance to vote in secret on a motion of no confidence in his leadership.The Constitutional Court on Thursday confirmed National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbete has the power to decide on whether there should be a secret ballot on the proposed Motion.Zuma was answering MPs' questions about the recession, state capture and the issue of a secret ballot.To date, Zuma has faced seven motions of no confidence in his leadership. I m sure by the time we get to December, it would be more than 10 [motions of no confidence]. Maybe it s your job as the opposition even to try to find alternative methods. The fact of the matter is, you don t have the majority. Zuma questioned why opposition MPs were now determined to change the voting process. You are trying to get the majority that you don t have by choosing the secret ballot. I think it s not fair because you are trying to increase the majority that you don t have. The Democratic Alliance has asked Mbete to schedule the motion for the earliest available date.WATCH: #SecretBallot EFF: We will stand together and shut down SAEXECUTIVE ACCOUNTABILITYThe Constitutional Court confirmed the United Democratic Movement s (UDM) application to allow Parliament to hold a motion of no confidence in the president in secret is about executive accountability.The court ruled that National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbete was mistaken when she said that neither the Constitution nor the rules of the assembly allow her to authorise a vote by secret ballot.Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng says any motion of no confidence is there to enhance the enforcement of accountability. When all the regular checks and balances seem to be ineffective or a serious accountability breach is sought to have occurred, then the citizens best interest could at times demand a resort to the ultimate accountability ensuring mechanisms. Read the full judgment below: ConCourt on UDM Secret Vote by Primedia Broadcasting on Scribd(Edited by Winnie Theletsane)