SABC interim board chairperson Khanyisile Kweyama says the 90% local content policy was simply not working. JOHANNESBURG The South African Broadcasting Corporation (SABC) s interim board says it believes the 90% local content policy was too drastic and a new comprehensive policy is now being drafted.On Monday, former COO Hlaudi Motsoeneng was fired from the SABC after he was found guilty of misconduct and bringing the public broadcaster into disrepute following an unauthorised press conference he held in April.Motsoeneng has defended his 90% local content rule for radio stations saying that it is what South Africans want.SABC interim board chairperson Khanyisile Kweyama says the 90% local content policy was simply not working. We re not going to wing it. We actually have quite a comprehensive policy that we ve been looking at and drafting. Icasa has got 80% and the 50% and we were going way above, 90/10 was way above Icasa. Motsoeneng, who implemented the policy had several local musicians praising him at an unauthorised press conference he held in April.Now that Motsoeneng has been dismissed, another policy he advocated, the banning of broadcasting violent protests, has been rescinded.DECISION ON MOTSOENENG BINDINGThe SABC says the interim board s decision to dismiss Motsoeneng is binding and it accepts the disciplinary committee s report finding him guilty of misconduct.During the briefing, Motsoeneng, who was still on suspension, criticised the Parliamentary ad-hoc committee s inquiry into the former board and interim board member Krish Naidoo.Motsoeneng was notified about his dismissal on Monday afternoon after the interim board accepted the disciplinary committee's recommendations.Kweyama says that the SABC s policy about holding press conferences or speaking out about the broadcaster is clear and Motsoeneng was found guilty of bringing the SABC into disrepute.She says details about his notice period will not be revealed at this stage. Nobody wants their notice period and those to be known but it suffices to say that Mr Motsoeneng s dismissal has been accepted by the board. In April, Motsoeneng praised himself for the good work he did while at the SABC. There s nothing wrong that during my time at the SABC we did. Actually, we did what South Africans are looking for. (Edited by Leeto M Khoza)