She has announced the appointment of four new board members and the reappointment of acting chair Zethembe Khoza. JOHANNESBURG Public Enterprises Minister Lynne Brown says several investigations are underway into allegations levelled against Eskom and some of its executives but none of these have been tested in a court of law.She has announced the appointment of four new board members and the reappointment of acting chair Zethembe Khoza. Their names will be brought to cabinet for approval.The minister also says she made a very good choice by appointing Johnny Dladla as the new acting CEO as he hasn t been compromised and has the experience to run a company.Brown says, at the same time, further investigations are proceeding. My department is in discussion with a special investigations unit with a view to probing activities at Eskom. Since the country first experienced load shedding, the Hawks are investigating issues raised in recently leaked emails. Parliament is conducting its own investigation into Eskom. WATCH: Minister Lynne Brown briefs the public on the state of EskomBrown said the past two months have been difficult for Eskom and while she indicated that it may be best to rotate the board she s also had to ensure continuity.The minister also says she made a very good choice by appointing Dladla as the new acting CEO as he hasn t been compromised and has the experience to run a company.There were expectations that Brown would appoint an entirely new Eskom board but she only appointed four new members bringing the number to nine. I indicated that it may be in Eskom s interest to rotate the board but this would have to be balanced against continuity. The minister said several allegations involving Eskom and the executives have continued to surface but these matters are still under investigation. Further investigations are now proceeding. My department is in discussions with the Special Investigations Unit with a view to probing activities at Eskom since the country experienced load shedding. Brown said the new interim arrangements represent a new dawn at Eskom and the utility is doing better financially than it was two years ago. ESKOM BOARD MUST DECIDE MATSHELA KOKO S FATE Brown said it s up to the Eskom board to decide what action will be taken against former acting CEO Matshela Koko.Koko, who was appointed to head the power utility after Brian Molefe s departure, was suspended earlier this year after allegations of a possible conflict of interest involving his stepdaughter, who was a director of a company that landed R1 billion in business from Eskom.Law firm Cliffe Dekker Hofmeyr and Nkonki completed its investigation into Koko and handed over the report to the minister and the board.Reports this week emerged that Koko has been cleared of any wrongdoing.During a press briefing on Friday, Brown did not disclose details of the outcome of the investigation. I ve had the Cliffe Dekker Hofmeyr and Nkonki report for a week now, but the board would have to tell me what to do. It s an investigation by the board and the board has to write to me and tell me what actions they are going to take.&quot;(Edited by Leeto M Khoza)