On the eve of the party's policy conference, ANC secretary general Gwede Mantashe is outlining some of the key issues including unemployment, land reform and crime. JOHANNESBURG - As the African National Congress (ANC) heads into its fifth policy conference, secretary general Gwede Mantashe says the results of the last local government elections are still looming large in the party's analysis.On the eve of the party's policy conference, Mantashe is outlining some of the key issues including unemployment, land reform and crime.He held a briefing at Nasrec in Soweto earlier on Thursday on the party's state of readiness ahead of the conference. #ANCNPC Mantashe says there is a candid paper that was prepared by NEC "it will be delivered at policy conference" CM EWN Reporter (@ewnreporter) June 29, 2017 #ANCStalwarts say they will not be attending the ANC Policy conference this coming weekend. MK pic.twitter.com/3ki7Qy5uO0 EWN Reporter (@ewnreporter) June 29, 2017 #ANCNPC Mantashe says there is a candid paper that was prepared by NEC "it will be delivered at policy conference" CM#ANCStalwarts say they will not be attending the ANC Policy conference this coming weekend. MK pic.twitter.com/3ki7Qy5uO0The ANC is aware it's going into this conference with the party in its deepest crisis marred by divisions. But Mantashe is hopeful this gathering will unite the party. This conference provides an opportunity for the ANC to self-correct. We ll emerge out of this conference stronger and more united. Mantashe says delegates will not be allowed to sing divisive songs. However, he says songs about former leaders like Nelson Mandela and current leaders like Jacob Zuma will be allowed.WATCH: No divisive songs may be sungMantashe mentioned economic problems facing the country such as the technical recession, the country's junk status and the 48,000 jobs lost in the first quarter, saying the ANC will emerge with a united common vision for the economic trajectory of the country.He has also confirmed state capture will be discussed at the party's policy conference.At the same time, a group of ANC stalwarts have confirmed they won't be attending the conference. They say the gathering is not the consultative conference that they had wanted.(Edited by Zinhle Nkosi)