Phosa says Jacob Zuma&#8217;s successor must encapsulate the same values portrayed by stalwarts like Nelson Mandela and Walter Sisulu. CAPE TOWN African National Congress (ANC) presidential hopeful Mathews Phosa, says that South Africa is in need of national healing.He made the comment on the sidelines of an even hosted by seven ANC branches in Khayelitsha on Sunday which endorsed him to take over the party s leadership.Phosa is the former Mpumalanga premier and treasurer-general of the ANC.Jacob Zuma s successor will be chosen at the party's elective conference in December.NEC members Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma and Cyril Ramaphosa are tipped to be the favourites in the ANC leadership race.Branch chairperson Anele Gabuza explains why they decided to rather back Mathews Phosa. Nkosazana is part of the scandals, she already has a house in Dubai and Cyril has Marikana hanging over his head.Phosa says South Africa is facing a difficult period. Every day there is a scandal. We don t only need national reconciliation and unity, we need national healing but after Zuma. He says the ANC is in denial about its current dysfunctional state.NEW LEADERS MUST EMULATE MANDELAPhosa says that Jacob Zuma s successor must encapsulate the same values portrayed by stalwarts like Nelson Mandela and Walter Sisulu.Phosa says the next leader of the party should emulate those of the past. Like Nelson Mandela, like Walter Sisulu respected our Constitution of the country and who understand exactly where we come from in our history with Freedom Charter and many other documents which are important for the ANC, which encapsulate our values, who understand that this country is governed by the rule of law and respect every citizen s right. Meanwhile, Phosa has accepted nominations to run for the position of ANC leader.Phosa said the people are calling for change. It s really humbling because it is people who are in love with the ANC, who cry for an alternative leadership and who believe the ANC deserve an alternative leadership both at political and economic levels. These are ordinary people and I m happy that it is them who make the choice about who must or mustn t be their leader. Most of the councillors called for a leader to unite the party and they believe Phosa is the man to mend the ANC's problems.(Edited by Leeto M Khoza)