Extraordinary scenes unfolded in Parliament, where South African Airways was to have given an update on its precarious financial situation. PARLIAMENT - Extraordinary scenes have unfolded in a meeting of Parliament s Standing Committee on Finance, where South African Airways (SAA) was to have given an update on its precarious financial situation.The majority of African National Congress (ANC) Members of Parliament (MPs) on the committee wanted SAA board chairperson Dudu Myeni to be sent packing as she was the only board member present.Opposition MPs suggested board members had boycotted the meeting because of reported differences with Myeni.But ANC MP Peace Mabe insisted that Myeni be allowed to speak.This led to a major clash with fellow ANC MP and committee chairperson Yunus Carrim during which Mabe accused him of ill-treating her.#SAA Spat now between Peace Mabe and chair Yunus Carrim who mentioned her failure to attend meetings. GDThe unprecedented spat lays bare stark divisions in the ruling party over Myeni and the state of the national airline.Carrim told fellow Mabe she d attended only two meetings since her appointment to the committee several weeks ago and both times had differed with her party colleagues.This sparked an emotional response from Mabe. I don t want you to treat me like this that s the reason why I never attended some of the meetings. Carrim responded by saying: Please, you were not attending meetings. In which Mabe hit back: &quot;I am here today. I want to make my contributions. You tell me I differ with others. #SAA Mabe claims Carrim has "killed her confidence (to) attend meetings" of committee. Adamant Myeni should be heard. GDMabe says there was no ANC position on the matter. We cannot as the ANC want to excite the opposition and jump into the negative wagon of any negative thing they say. Mabe insisted Myeni be allowed to make her presentation, but Myeni was allowed only to answer to specific allegations aired during the meeting.(Edited by Zamangwane Shange)