John McEnroe has come under fire after his comment that Serena Williams would be ranked &#8216;like 700 in the world&#8217; if she had to play on the men&#8217;s circuit. CAPE TOWN - Three-times Wimbledon champion John McEnroe has refused to apologise to Serena Williams for saying she would be ranked like 700 in the world if she had to play on the men s circuit.In an interview with National Public Radio on Sunday, McEnroe said Williams was the best female player ever but declined to label her the best overall.During an interview with CBS s This Morning, McEnroe was asked if he wanted to apologise to Williams.He stood by his comment: I felt the need, however, unfortunately, to defend myself and say what I really felt, which is what I think she would be in the men s rankings. McEnroe went on to clarify that he didn t know his comment would create controversy."It wasn't necessary.... I didn't know it would create controversy." -- John McEnroe on his Serena Williams comments pic.twitter.com/6YAPtZ80mpWilliams has asked McEnroe for respect .The 23-times grand slam champion, who has taken time off to have a baby, wrote on Twitter. Dear John, I adore and respect you but please please keep me out of your statements that are not factually based. Williams has won the most grand slam singles titles in the professional era, five more than Swiss Roger Federer, the most prolific winner in the men's game.I've never played anyone ranked "there" nor do I have time. Respect me and my privacy as I'm trying to have a baby. Good day sirWATCH: John McEnroe *re-ranks* the world s best tennis players, ranking @SerenaWilliams at 5 pic.twitter.com/l72JPrNDjeMeanwhile, Williams has asked fans to guess the sex of her unborn child and posted a picture of a Vanity Fair magazine showing her posing nude on the cover.Check out my Vanity Fair Cover. Question- what do u guys think boy or girl? I'm waiting to find out but would love to hear your thoughts. pic.twitter.com/Nnq4VKCu8NAdditional information by Reuters.