Two trains collided near the Elandsfontein station on Thursday morning. JOHANNESBURG - Metrorail says its technicians are investigating the exact cause of a crash in Ekurhuleni in which one person died and at least 100 others were injured.Two trains collided near the Elandsfontein station on Thursday morning.Train services between Johannesburg and Pretoria have been suspended.Metrorail's Tony Games says: We received reports that two of our trains had collided, one was heading to Johannesburg and the other an empty coach in the yard heading to Tembisa. Games says they are working on arranging buses for the thousands of stranded commuters. Our customer service managers are arranging buses to commute the commuters between the two destinations. Our technical team is working to open one line so that there ll be movement. #TrainCollision Emergency services are busy removing the body of a man who died in the collision. ML pic.twitter.com/dsBsBMmtXE#TrainCollision Emergency services, police, metro rail and fire brigade are on the scene. ML pic.twitter.com/4x6DT4sMPfElandsfontein train accident scene this morning#metrorail #Prasa pic.twitter.com/B90wUwJhV9Ekurhuleni Emergency Services says that some of the 102 passengers injured in the train collision in Ekurhuleni are in a critical condition in hospital.The identity of the person killed in the crash is still unknown.Emergency services William Ntladi says they are waiting for the forensic team to arrive. The body is still on here; the investigation is still being conducted. Up until everything is cleared up by Prasa, together with Metrorail, together with South African police services, they will be removing the body to the necessary facilities. Officials have cordoned off the area where the two passenger trains collided while transporting commuters to work this morning.Earlier, commuters were stranded at the Elandsfontein train station but Metrorail has since arranged for buses to ferry them to their destinations. (Edited by Shimoney Regter)