It is my context that teaching religion at school has also been a way to facilitate behaviour. A set of rules that keeps children respectful of a higher being, an authority figure with inexplicable powers, fearful of a God who can see everything you do, though S/He is invisible and a God who can punish you or reward you according to your actions, which then ensured compliance and obedience.The Ten Commandments are simple enough to keep children and adults on the straight and narrow in the world. The powerful and frightening vision of Moses presented with those two tablets remain in my mind s eye, there was a burning bush, Moses had a thick grey cassock, a long beard and wild hair. Quickly as a child I embraced those commandments as the real deal!Ten straightforward, logical and somewhat complicated rules to live by, depending on how you are taught, led or indoctrinated with them. Essentially my reading today is that most religions have essence of the 10 commandments as a formula by which to live a good life. Not a righteous life but a life where you don t harm anyone.In our home we were taught and raised. No bible bashing and threats of God is going to punish you were necessary in our home. Our parents parented us, they guided us and we had a religion. I know fundamentalists with religion are the basis on which many, many people have turned their back on their familial religions and rituals. Many still lead good principled lives, as do many vagabonds who claim to be religious. Through school and community we can still build a foundation respecting the place of different religions, which is in your homes, your family circles and your places of worship. The rules of engagement are simple and clear.This is my experience as a non-fanatical slash baddish Catholic who is going to die a Catholic. During apartheid South Africa, I guess being brought up within a religion gave me a sense of belonging, a community and a strong sense of identity in a country where my family and I were not acknowledged as a worthy group of citizens. We belonged to a congregation, we were welcomed, united, involved with the community, and our parents were respected for their roles in the church. Our father a leader of some of the societies and our mom worked with a group who ran the food kitchen during winter. At church there was rank and authority and working together for a common good. It must have fed a need for our parents who were not regarded for their intellectual input and innovative outputs in their work environments. It was a safe and loving space to stand.What our parents taught us about being equal and different no matter what the apartheid government said I guess could also be taught through religion. It is wide open to interpretation. Our opinion about religion should not prejudice other religions; it should be a tolerant and accepting view that our rights to have a religion are equal.Catholic guilt is the best and the worst form of moral conscience. It either provokes you to action or to moderate your actions, as the imagined or real consequences would mean you not only upset your parents but also God, making you a sinner. It all sounds very dramatic now - laughable even to some - but my truth is that it kept me on the straight and narrow. My choices were informed by not being free of the consequence of them.As an adult child and a parent I have learned to make distinctions between religion and faith, between preaching words and teaching through your behaviour. I have learned that life skills and values can find commonality through religion, or the other way around.In a free and democratic South Africa - where we have had many lessons about diversity, non-discrimination, equality and freedom - we should really adapt to a common way of being as people, irrespective of our religious views. Let us find each other and connect about what is workable and what is not workable within a community, a company, a social setting, a sports team, a crowded bus or train, an empty Porsche or a hospital waiting room. As people we need to find a way to live together in harmony within our differences.You do you and I will do me. You don t see equality in promoting one religion to the exclusion of all the others, let s talk about what our alternatives are and create something not based on religion but on ways of being in the world. It could unify us more than any gathering in a church mosque or temple could. Who knows until we give it a go. The world is what you make it. If you say it s dangerous, it will be, because that is what you seek. If you believe the world to be a good place, you will seek that and find that. If you experience unbelievable trauma faith, spirituality is where you may find solace, not in religion as it is.So that said, I believe religion at schools can be scrapped with immediate effect if replaced with a new, formal and structured programme to teach our children human values, how to behave in respect of other people, how to relate to responsibility, authority and accountability. How do we define appropriate and inappropriate behaviour? If we choose to teach and role model, accommodating other people the way they are and they are not, we will be able to focus more on how we and our children show up in the world.We have a whole world of choice and we have a world of consequences for each choice we make every single time. Just imagine a world where in a group, a classroom, a family, a social setting you could stand in your space and be so free of judgement that you could see everybody for who they are and not who you think they are or who you think they should be? This methodology would clean up the mess we have made not guiding our children effectively and expecting schools and religion to take care of that. Not all of us but a significant amount of parents.I see a valuable opportunity in light of this week s ruling to not promote one religion in schools. Finally, a new way to engage as people first, we can be present to who we are and not what we are. This will be harder than clinging to religion, so if you are in the camp of no religion, but definitely coaching on how to be a good person, then let us lace up our boots and go for it!Hallelujah!Lisa Joshua Sonn is a social activist. Follow her on Twitter: @annalisasonn