It was earlier reported that five people died in two separate incidents, in Kraaifontein and Lavender Hill, that were related to the storm. CAPE TOWN The Western Cape Government has now linked eight deaths to the storm system that's been sweeping the Cape Peninsula on Wednesday.Four people were killed in Kraaifontein, emergency services say this was after lightning struck an electricity pole which toppled onto their home.At the same time, a man was killed when his shack collapsed on him in Lavender Hill.Another three people have been reported dead near Knysna where a fire has broken out as the broader storm front is driving Berg wind conditions in the Eden Municipality.#KnysnaFire The three deceased are a farm worker, his wife and their son. Circumstances and details are still unclear. XKStrong winds are pushing the flames towards homes in Belvidere, Breonton-on-Sea and Rheenendal.The first fire, which broke out near Plettenberg Bay last night,was contained but there's also another burning close to Rheenendal. XK pic.twitter.com/2kJH0HFr2gKnysna Fire Chief Clint Manuel says crews are trying to get as many people away from danger. We have evacuated the entire Belvidere and some people have come out, but we are getting reports of some people still on the inside. We are still trying to get them out and we are also trying to get them to the jetty where the NSRI can also pick them up. Knysna Fire Chief Clint Manuel said crews were trying to get as many people away from danger.WC HEALTH: NOT A GREAT DAY FOR SELFIESWestern Cape officials are appealing to Cape Town residents to stay inside as the monster storm intensifies.The Health Department is cautioning people not to stand too close to the railing at sea point promenade, to take pictures of the waves that are breaking.Doctor Wayne Smith, who's the provincial head of disaster medicine, says he was witnessing locals doing so and warned this is extremely dangerous given the current weather conditions. We have people standing on the Promenade, right next to where the waves are breaking, and literally having photographs taken doing selfies and the concern is that they will get washed out and end up in the storm surge where we won t be able to get hold of them. I am pleading with people that if they want to take photographs, to take them at a distance. 