South Africa has had a tough tour of England thus far in the limited overs formats, losing both the ODI and T20 series against the hosts. CAPE TOWN - Former Proteas captain Graeme Smith says there is a lot of uncertainty surrounding the Proteas camp and fears the side will not be ready come the first test next week at Lords.South Africa has had a tough tour of England thus far in the limited overs formats, losing both the ODI and T20 series against the hosts while also exiting the ICC Champions Trophy in the group stages.Added to that, regular test captain Faf du Plessis is back home after the birth of his first child and his participation in the first test cannot be guaranteed just yet.While coach Russell Domingo has returned to the tour after coming home for family reasons, the speculation about him not reapplying for his job must also be factored in according to Smith.Speaking on Laureus Power of Sport, Smith says he's anxious about South Africa s chances in the test series starting next week at Lords. To be honest, I am a little uneasy about this test series. Since we (Proteas) arrived in England if we're honest, the team has looked flat, it's looked like something is missing, there is a lot of uncertainty around that squad at the moment. Smith hopes the leadership group within the camp will put their hands up to handle a challenging test series. The leadership of that group and how they come together tactically, mentally and emotionally in terms of dealing with the pressure of playing in front of large UK crowds, the UK media. So those are the things I guess that worry me a little bit. He added that without leadership the Proteas could find themselves experiencing further difficulties on tour. There is a lot of leadership uncertainty, the team doesn t look like it has a spark, it hasn t looked in control of what they doing since they ve been in the UK. So, in the four test match series is huge, a lot of pressure, it is very draining, it s a long tour. The first test begins on 6 July at Lords where Titan opener Heino Kuhn is expected to make his debut.