EFF leader Julius Malema has warned that his party will withdraw its votes and support from the DA if Helen Zille remains premier of the Western Cape. JOHANNESBURG - EFF leader Julius Malema has warned that his party will withdraw its votes and support from the DA if Helen Zille remains premier of the Western Cape.Zille was suspended by the DA on Wednesday for bringing the party into disrepute after she tweeted in defence of what she called positive aspects of colonialism.But she remains Western Cape premier, Julius Malema has lambasted this decision. They must be warned, and we do so now. You will remain with Western Cape, with Johannesburg, Tshwane, and PE - gone. We are not going associate with a party that protects colonialism. At a press briefing in Johannesburg on Thursday, Malema branded the DA as arrogant for not treating parties in their coalition as equal partners. If they don t change this attitude they are displaying of white arrogance, they must rest assured, we will not be vote with them. Malema has accused Zille of compromising the EFF s efforts, together with the DA, to remove the ANC from power in 2019.#EFF Malema says "The DA is a problem. It is too forward. It doesn't take advice. It's arrogant" CMAt Thursday s briefing, Malema also revealed alleged corruption at Transnet worth R17.4 billion, which he claimed involved key figures in government as well as the Gupta family.The EFF leader said the party will soon lay criminal charges related to the alleged graft against Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba, whom he accuses of being a facilitator of state capture.Malema alleges that Gigaba was at the centre of the graft, which also allegedly involved former Eskom CEO Brian Molefe and the Gupta family.#EFF Malema talks us through the "expose". It's about Transnet locomotives tender. CM pic.twitter.com/aDPcgPh9r0#EFF Malema believes the inflated amount for the 1064 locomotives amounts to R17,4 billion. CM pic.twitter.com/QTTdUBu8aKThe EFF has also asked President Jacob Zuma to withdraw his application to review the public protector's state of capture report.If he fails to do so, the party intends heading to court to seek an early date for the review on the grounds that the commission of inquiry is urgent.