British Theresa May faced pressure to postpone the UK election in the wake of the London terror attack. JOHANNESBURG British Theresa May says political campaigns will resume tomorrow and general election will go ahead on 8 June as planned in spite of the London attacks.May faced pressure to postpone the UK election in the wake of the London terror attack.The Prime Minister said that while the string of terror attacks in the UK in recent months were not connected, they shared the evil ideology of Islamist extremism . Defeating this is one of the greatest challenges of our time. It can only be defeated when we turn people s minds away from this violence and make them understand that our British values are superior to anything offered by the preachers and supporters of hate. [Watch] London eyewitness: I saw 'bodies flipped into the air'Armed police rushed to the scene and, within eight minutes of receiving the first emergency call shortly after 10 pm local time. had shot dead the three male attackers in the Borough Market area near the bridge.At least 48 people were injured in the attack, the third to hit Britain in less than three months and occurring days ahead of a parliamentary election on Thursday. Most of the main political parties suspended national campaigning on Sunday.&quot;I can confirm that the terrible incident in London is being treated as a potential act of terrorism,&quot; Prime Minister Theresa May said in a statement as events unfolded. Flags were flying at half-mast over her Downing Street residence on Sunday morning.London Bridge is a major transport hub and nearby Borough Market is a fashionable warren of alleyways packed with bars and restaurants that are always bustling on a Saturday night.The area remained cordoned off and patrolled by armed police and counter-terrorism officers on Sunday, with train stations closed. Forensic investigators could be seen working on the bridge, where buses and taxis stood abandoned.There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the latest attack to hit Britain and Europe.STAB WOUNDSThe London Ambulance Service said 48 people had been taken to five hospitals across the city and a number of others had been treated at the scene for minor injuries.London Mayor Sadiq Khan said some of those who had been injured were in a critical condition. He said the official threat level in Britain remained at severe, meaning a militant attack is highly likely. It had been raised to critical after the Manchester attack, then lowered again days later.The mayor said he did not think Thursday s election should be postponed because of events in London. One of the things that we can do is show that we aren t going to be cowed, is by voting on Thursday and making sure that we understand the importance of our democracy, our civil liberties and our human rights, Khan said.Roy Smith, a police officer who was at the scene during the unfolding emergency, expressed his shock on Twitter. Started shift taking photos with children playing on the South Bank. Ended it giving CPR to innocent victims attacked at London Bridge, he wrote, adding a broken heart emoji.Witnesses described a white van careering into pedestrians on the bridge. It looked like he was aiming for groups of people, Mark Roberts, 53, a management consultant, told Reuters. He saw at least six people on the ground after the van veered on and off the pavement. It was horrendous, he said.A taxi driver told the BBC that three men got out of the van with long knives and went randomly along Borough High Street stabbing people. Witnesses described people running into a bar to seek shelter. People started running and screaming, and the van crashes into the railing behind. We went towards Borough Market and everyone went inside (the bar), one witness, who gave his name as Brian, 32, told Reuters.Another witness, who declined to be named, described a scene of panic in the bar. They hit the emergency alarm. There was a line of people going down to the emergency exit. And then people started screaming coming back up, said the 31-year-old, his white top covered in blood. Around the corner there was a guy with a stab wound on his neck ... There was a doctor in the pub and she helped him. They put pressure on the stab wound. BBC radio said witnesses saw people throwing tables and chairs at the attackers to protect themselves.SOLIDARITY FROM WORLD LEADERSIslamic State, losing territory in Syria and Iraq to an advance backed by a US-led coalition, had sent out a call on instant messaging service Telegram early on Saturday urging its followers to launch attacks with trucks, knives and guns against Crusaders during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan.British Prime Minister May was due to chair a meeting of the government s Cobra security committee later on Sunday.US President Donald Trump took to Twitter to offer US help to Britain, while Russian President Vladimir Putin expressed condolences in a telegram to May.German Chancellor Angela Merkel voiced her sympathy. Today, we are united across all borders in horror and sadness, but equally in determination. I stress for Germany: in the fight against all forms of terrorism, we stand firmly and decisively at the side of Great Britain, she said.French President Emmanuel Macron said on Twitter that France is standing more than ever side by side with the UK .Four French nationals were among those injured in the London attack, French officials said. Australia said two of its citizens were caught up in it and one of them was in the hospital.The Manchester bombing on May was the deadliest attack in Britain since July 2005, when four British Muslim suicide bombers killed 52 people in coordinated assaults on London s transport network.