The National Conservative Party of South Africa hosted a countrywide event on 31 May: A March for the Freedom of the Afrikaner People. The purpose of the event was for Boere to gather in support of the right to work, the right to freedom and so red die boer (save the Afrikaner people). They also released an amazing white pride video. They go so far as to mention that their faith is white . Jesus was a man of colour people. Not a Scandinavian looking Viking who occasionally is depicted as a surfer-dude in paintings.On its website, the party has announced that the following organisations formally accepted an invitation to support the march: The Federation of Free Afrikaner Republicans, Praag, A Million Voices for Steve (MSVS) in support of Steve Hofmeyr and ASK (the Afrikaner Strategic Commission). The website also states that there are a few organisations who did not respond to the invite.The event was set to be a gathering of people who pride themselves as right-wingers. White right-wingers who believe in the segregation of race and culture, and who feel their way of life is under threat by democracy, basically, because it does not serve their historical standing of superiority. Their internal structures, efforts and calls to action in a post-democratic South Africa (where none of their wealth, land ownership, and civil human rights have been removed) are all driven in a passionate belief that white genocide is a legitimate thing. And that white primacy needs to be fought for (and maintained).In a nutshell, it is not so much the right to survive, no one is stopping that, theirs is a struggle that fights for the right to live in a past controlled by the entitlement they claimed for themselves. Paid for only with violence and racism.There is an anxiety that comes with being an Afrikaner in South Africa today. I can admit to that. Change is hard, for anyone. The freedom and equality of all people of South Africa has left them feeling somewhat out of place. And it is true. When your only place of worship is a white past, fitting into a colourful present and future can be hard. Do you let go of your identity? Do you merely just adapt, or do you resort to more extreme tactics, fueled by anger because yours is a tiny demographic that whispers and whose message is so different from the rest?Of course, none of this helped by the wildfire that is equal opportunities in employment, and to be honest preferential treatment, making it harder for white people to get jobs. Please note that there were no uprisings by Afrikaners who called for equal opportunities when they were the only ones ensuring their own preferential treatment and denying everyone else the same opportunity. We call it positive discrimination, Afrikaners believe in something called reverse-racism . So that s what they call it. The damnation and extermination of white faces in the workplace is not a thing. In fact, the majority of huge businesses are still white owned.No one wants to exterminate white Afrikaners. In simple terms, if we did, the new government would not allow places like Orania to exist. In fact, I respect the citizens of Orania. They keep to themselves, and get on with it. Option?Afrikaners account for just over 2 and a half million of a population of just over 5 million white South Africans in total. The majority of whom are not white supremacists. Not all white Afrikaans speaking South Africans support marches and protests like the one hosted by National Conservative Party of South Africa. So, in total, approximately less the 5%of the 5.2% of total Afrikaners in this nation believe in white genocide, and all the other ideologies mentioned above. Tiny. This can t help the feeling of displacement.But, at least you have each other. All (almost) 5% of you.Haji Mohamed Dawjee is a commentator on gender equality, sexuality, culture, race relations and feminism as well as ethics in the South African media environment.