Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa says there will be a renewal of the ANC after the party&#8217;s consultative conference in December. JOHANNESBURG - Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa says there will be a renewal of the African National Congress (ANC) after the party s elective conference in December. Ramaphosa was speaking at the Gordon Institute of Business Science on Tuesday about radical economic transformation. #Ramaphosa: Radical economic transformation, done properly is necessary. MK pic.twitter.com/qsr71wvmTQHe says business and ordinary South Africans should embrace the concept as it could improve the economy. Ramaphosa says while there may be concerns about radical economic transformation because of a lack of trust in government, there s still hope for the governing party to rid itself of the negative image. At the five-yearly national conference, where there will be a renewal of national leadership, renewal of the strength of the ANC and the party will come out united. Ramaphosa also expanded on what radical economic transformation meant, saying that the term has been misunderstood and is often misusedHowever, he says that in its correct context, radical economic transformation is necessary for the country s growth.The deputy president took a swipe at those who he says claim radical economic transformation. The term radical economic transformation is often deployed to either mask or justify activities that would be best described as state capture. He says the term is rooted in the Freedom Charter and when properly implemented could help grow the economy.Ramaphosa says apartheid left black people dispossessed and radical economic transformation seeks to rectify the imbalance.He says the term radical economic transformation has been hijacked by some people. We now know that some highly paid PR specialists contrive the plan to use terms such as 'radical economic transformation' and 'white monopoly capital', essentially to launch a publicity offensive in defence of their tribes and we know who those kinds are.&quot;(Edited by Zamangwane Shange)