&quot;Yasss! Yassss!&quot; That is the phrase I found myself uttering throughout the premiere of Winnie this weekend. I found myself clapping and raising my fist, especially when she stuck it to the apartheid and patriarchal system.The documentary Winnie is about the political life of Winnie Madikizela-Mandela which includes extensive interviews with her, her daughter Zindzi and shadowy regime types who sought her downfall.With her then husband Nelson Mandela in prison, Winnie faced the brunt of apartheid cruelty and an indecisive public that first cast her as the Mother of the Nation, and then largely accepted a re-casting of her as a sinner.Watching the documentary I couldn't help but feel anger: anger at the apartheid regime and those within the African National Congress (ANC) who betrayed her. It also evoked feelings of pride for having Winnie as the mother of the nation. The film portrayed her strength, resilience in trying times and courage at all times. She kept the armed wing of the ANC Umkhonto we Sizwe alive and kept the struggle going.WATCH: Trailer for WinnieThere was a scene in the documentary where part of Winnie s house in Brandfort that was burnt by apartheid officials. She retaliated by packing her bags to drive back to Johannesburg, a place from which she was banned. On the way she is followed by apartheid police. She eventually pulls over and an argument between her and authorities ensues. A white policewoman tries to pull her grandson from the car and in the process hurts him. Winnie retaliated by condemning her act and pushing her.The white men were taken aback and didn t know what to do so they just stood there. It was the way that she stood up to authorities that lit a fire inside me. As a history student back in school I have consumed so much content that depicts black people as being somewhat complacent with apartheid and being too afraid to fight back. The mother of the nation fought back at all times and refused to normalise the brutality of the system.When Mandela was released from prison after 27 years, he had to make a speech to the people. During that first speech he had misplaced his glasses and Winnie gave him her glasses to use. That scene was so symbolic of the person that she is and was; a supportive wife, a woman that has your back no matter what, an anchor.The film also documents the period when Winnie was facing murder charges as well as allegations of an affair with a younger Dali Mpofu; as a result her marriage to Madiba was facing difficulties and he was being advised by members with the ANC to get rid of her if he wanted to advance his political career.Eventually, the pair separated and there is a scene where she says I had lost my identity... I had become Mandela s wife . The film calls out patriarchy in the sense that sometimes when a woman gets married she is reduced to just being so-and-so s wife, forgetting that that woman is not just a wife, but so much more. The film provides a feminist context encouraging women not to lose themselves, not to lose their identity.This documentary is important because of the stories about Winnie Madikizela-Mandela that have been told around the world and consumed uncritically. It further reawakened my curiosity, my need to know and to learn. It s important for everyone to not just consume news, movies, etc at face value and accept what we are consuming. Analyse and criticise the content you consume at all times.This echoes the call by former Minister of Finance Pravin Gordhan who urged South Africans to connect the dots and see who is benefiting from state capture and where the money is going. Gordhan s call comes in the wake of the leaked Gupta emails that allegedly implicates the controversial family with state capture, the Zuma family and other Cabinet officials and connects them to state looting and corruption.The documentary Winnie has finally restored Madikizela-Mandela to stage centre, a key figure in the liberation of South Africa.Refilwe Pitjeng is an EWN social media producer. Follow her on Twitter @refsheric