It&#8217;s understood the elderly man die on Saturday afternoon, bringing the number of fatalities to six since the fire broke out in the area this week. CAPE TOWN - A 63-year-old man has died in Eden following a fire. It s understood the elderly man die on Saturday afternoon bringing number of fatalities to six since the fire broke out in the area this week. The Western Cape Local Government says five people have been taken to hospital in serious conditions. Spokesperson James-Brent Styan says, Tragically the western cape disaster management centre has confirmed with the SA Police Service that another fatality has taken place in the Eden District along the Garden Route where we ve been combating multiple fires along the fire line. Meanwhile, an elderly woman has been killed and her husband injured in a raging fire. This after a fire in the Thornhill area about 30km outside Jeffrey s Bay flared up on Saturday.WATCH: Firefighters fighting fires in Buffalo Bay Firefighters from the Kouga Municipality had contained the fire on Friday but strong winds reignited the flames.The police's Gerda Swart says, A number of buildings and vegetation were destroyed. Unfortunately, the 72-year-old woman also passed on in her farm in the Thornhill area. The husband was admitted in a hospital with burn wounds and we ve opened an invest docket. GALLERY: The Garden Route fires in picturesFIREFIGHTERS BATTLE SCHOOL FIREThe Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality says fire fighters are still trying to put out a fire that broke out at Woodridge College and Preparatory School near Port Elizabeth.Pupils were evacuated earlier on Saturday from the school grounds due to thick smoke.The fire has spread to the school's administration building and the hall.The municipality s Mthubanzi Mniki says, Currently the most problematic area is where the school is located. We ve been struggling since Friday night until now. This has resulted in damages at the school where about 50% of the school has been burnt to the group. (Edited by Zamangwane Shange)