The EFF says Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba was responsible for aiding the controversial family in spying on Malema when he was a minister at Home Affairs. JOHANNESBURG The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) says the Gupta family has been spying on its leader Julius Malema to weaken the mission of the party.The red berets further claim that the controversial family is in possession of his travelling details and ID number.They say the Guptas must return to where they came from if South Africa is going to get anything right in the future.The EFF says Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba was responsible for aiding the controversial family in spying on Malema when he was a minister of Home Affairs.The party s Mbuyeseni Ndlozi says the people spying on Malema are state officials. The time when Malusi Gigaba, who s their number one stooge, was the Home Affairs Minister, so we ve no doubt that he had a hand in that or his department for that matter. We know for sure that the persons that are spying on the CIC (Malema) are the government itself.&quot;He says they have bought South Africa s government and entered into corrupt business deals with the head of state. That s an abuse of generosity of the South African hospitality. Ndlozi says the Gupta family must know that the EFF is not scared of them.WE LL DEFEND OUR LEADERThey allege the Guptas obtained information on Malema from the Home Affairs and State Security Departments.The EFF says it s very concerned about the safety of its leader but has given the Guptas a strong warning that if the state security department does not take decisive action, the party will take the action to their doorstep.Ndlozi says the party has the right to use all the revolutionary means it has to defend themselves. To have leverage over the life of our leader just waiting for authorities who are drunk with being captured and they are not protecting Members of Parliament and political leaders. He says the Guptas have undermined the generosity of South Africa which welcomed them as foreigners. It has been exhausted. This family must go back to wherever they came from. Ndlozi says it s clear this information was obtained from Home Affairs during the time Malusi Gigaba was the minister.At the same time, the Sunday Times reported it has information that the family is in possession of a spreadsheet with sensitive information, including travel details of banking bosses and other politicians, dating back to 2015.(Edited by Leeto M Khoza)