Fikile Mbalula said the ANC will defeat any motion, while Julius Malema responded that 'this' minister didn't read the judgment. JOHANNESBURG - Police Minister Fikile Mbalula and Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader Julius Malema have taken a swipe at each other on Twitter.This follows the Constitutional Court confirmation on Thursday that National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbete has the power to decide on whether there should be a secret ballot on the proposed motion of no confidence in President Jacob Zuma.Mbalula made sure he had his say about the ruling by tweeting that the African National Congress (ANC) now has clarity and will defeat any motion.Without tagging Mbalula in his post, Malema responded that this minister didn't read the judgment and asked why he sounds so disgruntled if he thinks that he won.Malema also tweeted that the minister's drinking mate, Mbete, said she doesn't have the discretion to grant a secret ballot.He says the EFF argued that she does - and the court has agreed with them.Mbalula responded with another tweet saying he doesn't know where drinking fits in because the last time he checked he thought Malema was his drinking partner.Many clapped hands, I'm lost as to the victory they celebrate over #SecretBallot. They lost the case of wanting court to instruct SpeakerThe #SecretBallot ruling vindicates our democracy. It supports separation of powers doctrine. The ANC is morally boosted by this decision.#SecrerBallot ruling teaches Opposition must convince the ANC inside parliament & not run to courts over politics.... why they lost todayIf you think you won, why do you sound so disgruntled. The whole minister left his duties to justify that Parliment won a caseOne thing I know is that this Minister did not read the court papers and will not read this judgment but he's busy tweeting about it, haiYour drinking mate Baleka said she doesn't have discretion to grant secrete ballot. We said she does & the court agreed with us MinisterI don't know where drinking fits in. Last time I checked you were my drinking partner. Some amongst us wanted the Speaker to be forced.As a Minister who is a Member of Parliament I have every right to have interest in ConCourt Judgement. Nothing odd about commenting on it.WATCH: #Secret Ballot EFF: we will stand together and shut down SARead the full judgment below: ConCourt on UDM Secret Vote by Primedia Broadcasting on Scribd(Edited by Winnie Theletsane)