The Johannesburg Central Prison is home to some of the country&#8217;s most dangerous convicts however, it's emerged half-naked women were allowed on Youth Day. JOHANNESBURG - Thirteen officials from the Johannesburg Correctional Centre have been served with letters of intent to suspend them after half-naked women were allowed inside the prison.It s understood that the strippers were entertaining convicts as part of this month's Youth Day celebrations.The explicit images, which show the scantily-clad women dancing and touching some of the inmates, have been widely circulated on social media.In one image two women can be seen pulling at the trousers of a shirtless inmate, while another shows a scantily-clad woman embracing a grinning man in orange prison-issue clothes.Warders in full uniform and more than a dozen inmates can be seen watching on in a prison yard.The saucy show took place as part of June s Youth Day celebrations.The Johannesburg Central Prison, also known as Sun City, is home to some of the country s most dangerous convicts, however, it's emerged half-naked women were allowed into the prison on Youth Day.GUYS!! Kante tronko is nice like this??? Only this missing is #FreshBreakfast on their radio! pic.twitter.com/PPZxft53VVActing National Commissioner James Smalberger says there was a clear breach of security. That was provided to give guidance as well as other policies and procedures. He says those responsible have been identified. At least 13 officials will be served with letters of contemplation of suspension. The acting commissioner says that while several items were on the Youth Day programme to entertain inmates, strippers were not on that list.WATCH: 'Prison strippers' were part of Youth Month celebrationsPRISON AUTHORITIES APOLOGISEPrison authorities have apologised after pictures circulated on social media showed inmates being entertained by women dressed in knee-high boots and lacy lingerie while wardens looked on.Smalberger says: We want to apologise to the citizens of South Africa for this incident, which indeed is very disturbing. We will make sure that those found guilty face the consequences of their actions. (Edited by Zamangwane Shange)