The Chamber of Mines says they cannot accept this new charter while Minister Mosebenzi Zwane says they&#8217;ve done everything expected of them. JOHANNESBURG/PRETORIA - The Chamber of Mines says they haven't been consulted on the new Mining Charter, it is bad for investment and that they're going to court as soon as possible to challenge it.Mineral Resources Minister Mosebenzi Zwane announced the new charter on Thursday, but the chamber says the new document contains new ideas and that they were last formally consulted on the charter in April last year.Chamber of Mines CEO Roger Baxter says this is not their charter and they cannot subscribe to it. We are not going to sign this charter because it is not ours. It s very difficult to defend something that s not yours. It s something that we should have been through a proper process of engagement negotiation to get an outcome that is workable. Baxter says they cannot accept this new charter. We do reject the unilateral imposition of the charter on the industry and in particular the process followed by the DMR, in terms of the sub-standard issues that have come through the process and a lot of those on the charter we have never seen. They are appareling for the first time today. The chamber's President Mxolisil Mgojo says this charter would seriously hurt the industry. This is one charter that is going to scare investment and that will be a real consequence, not only to the mining industry but to all other ancillary industries that depend on a thriving mining industry. The chamber says it's committed to transformation but that it has a duty to also ensure the industry is sustainable.The Chamber of Mines says the new charter would have huge knock-on effects for the entire economy if it was implemented.ZWANE HITS BACKWhile the Chamber of Mines has criticised Zwane for allegedly not consulting on the new Mining Charter, the minister says he has consulted widely.The chamber boycotted a meeting called by the minister on Thursday morning, saying they will not be co-opted into a flawed process.Minister Zwane says he called stakeholders to a meeting on Thursday morning purely as a courtesy to provide them with copies of the new charter. It was not a meeting that was seeking to obtain any decision that had been done through many consultations with various stakeholders. He insists they ve done everything expected of them. This notion of courts nowadays is becoming a very popular kind of negotiation. We had consulted with more than 60 stakeholders.&quot;The chamber announced that it would approach the courts to interdict the implementation of the charter.(Edited by Winnie Theletsane)