Following his dismissal, Hlaudi Motsoeneng will still have to report for duty for another month. CAPE TOWN/JOHANNESBURG - Hlaudi Motsoeneng will face a second disciplinary inquiry related to the Public Protector's report on ethics and governance.SABC chairperson Khanyisile Kweyama told Parliament's communications committee on Tuesday that charges have already been formulated.Motsoeneng was axed on Monday on misconduct charges after he slammed the SABC board and Parliament at an unsanctioned press conference while he was on suspension.Following his dismissal, Motsoeneng will still have to report for duty for another month.Kweyama says this was decided so he can provide answers on questionable contracts. To dismiss him immediately would mean he s gone and he doesn t have to come back to us. So within this month, we should be able to wrap up any other area, including the disciplinary [inquiry]. Furthermore, an R11 million bonus to the axed Motsoeneng is to be probed by the Special Investigating Unit (SIU).Kweyama told Parliament s communications committee that the payment did not follow proper governance processes.She says Motsoeneng won t be paid out for the remainder of his contract as chief operating officer because he was fired for misconduct. We expect that s one of the areas that will come via an appeal or a review of the process. She says the SIU has been asked to probe the R11 million payout to Motsoeneng for a deal he concluded with Multichoice, as part of a raft of investigations to be concluded within the next six months. It s not a performance bonus in the traditional sense, our initial investigations found that it was more like a finder s fee. WATCH: The praise-singing press conference which got Hlaudi Motsoeneng firedAt the same time, the SABC board says there's no doubt that Motsoeneng has been informed about his dismissal from the public broadcaster.Kweyama said: The chairperson has made a ruling, it is not the SABC that s made the ruling. We put the process through an independent chair so that it could be fair, transparent, open to the public and the media. Communications Minister Ayanda Dlodlo says she's looking for new blood that will be able to better manage the broadcaster's finances, in light of plans to refinance the organisation.Meanwhile, chief financial officer and former acting CEO James Aguma is also facing disciplinary action, and another meeting is scheduled between parties for Thursday.(Edited by Winnie Theletsane)