Andries Tlouamma told Cyril Ramaphosa that his own integrity is being undermined by Jacob Zuma remaining in office. CAPE TOWN - Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa has been challenged to explain why he continues to legitimise President Jacob Zuma's leadership.Answering questions in Parliament, Ramaphosa has stressed the need for ethical leadership and for an independent judicial inquiry to be set up to probe allegations of state capture.He was then bluntly told by Agang SA's Andries Tlouamma that his own integrity is being undermined by Zuma remaining in office.Tlouamma went on to ask the deputy president why he was allowing President Jacob Zuma to turn him into an arm skepsel Afrikaans for poor creature . The brutal truth is you are also losing your integrity. Can you break from the yoke the president has bound you? The president is frog-marching us into a state of hopelessness, why are you continuing to legitimise his failed leadership?&quot;Ramaphosa replied but dodged the bigger question. I don t have my Afrikaans dictionary today, to remember what an arm skepsel is. All I can say is that I am not an arm skepsel and so I m not an arm skepsel . Ramaphosa s also told the house that Zuma is at present consulting his lawyers about establishing a judicial commission of inquiry into allegations of state capture. PENSIONS ARE SAFE At the same time, Ramaphosa has assured government employees their pensions are safe.He says the protracted pension battle of former Transnet employees must be resolved soon because it s impacting on the quality of life of the pensioners involved.The DA s Natasha Mazzone says she's concerned state pension funds are being used to bail out struggling state-owned enterprises, but Ramaphosa says she can relax. If a state-owned enterprise issues a bond, the Public Investment Corporation (PIC) which manages our money, could also feel that they should put some money in. That, in my view, does not mean they are bailing out the state-owned enterprise. Ramaphosa says he's confident the Government Employees Pension Fund will always be able to meet its obligations to its 1.2 million beneficiaries. We have got to ride the waves and in the end, there will be assurance that government employees will always get their money. He s also satisfied with the level of governance over the fund and the PIC.(Edited by Winnie Theletsane)