The Public Protector said Absa should pay over R1 billion to government because it benefitted from the deal &amp; also said that the mandate of the Reserve Bank should change. JOHANNESBURG - Judge Dennis Davis, who chaired the Davis Panel of Experts that investigated the Bankorp bailout, says nothing has happened since he made his findings in 2000 to change his view that Absa should not make any payment to the government over the deal.He also says while Public Protector Advocate Busisiwe Mkhwebane is right to say the bailout was illegal, there was simply no way to recover the money from the people who actually benefitted - which were policyholders at Sanlam.On Monday, Mkhwebane said Absa should pay R1.1 billion to government, saying she'd found that it had benefitted from the deal and also said that the mandate of the Reserve Bank should change.Davis says his panel determined that the people who actually benefitted from the deal were the policyholders at Sanlam, which was then a mutual society. Where you are now going to go to every policyholder who had essentially benefitted by a rand or 50c, if we took them all, from this particular benefit that they had acquired shareholders of Bankorp, and pursue the money, and we found that that would have been impossible. And he says that while it was Santam policyholders who benefitted in the end, that money simply could not be recovered. The problem by then was that Sanlam had been neutralized, so where was one going to recover the money from? He also says he doesn't see any fact or line of reasoning in the Public Protector's report that suggests he came to the wrong finding.Judge Dennis Davis earlier told Eyewitness News that he has never considered changing the finding of the Davis Panel of Experts which concluded that Absa should not pay back any money to government.Davis says the Public Protector relied on the same evidence as Davis Panel of Experts but came to a drastically different conclusion. As a judge, one is used to the notion that one is proved to be wrong on appeal. I m not suggesting for one moment that I m so convinced about this, that it s not possible to come to a different conclusion. My difficulty is that in all the subsequent hoohaa about it, including this particular report, I find nothing in the present report of the Public Protector which tells us why we were wrong. Judge Davis says Mkhwebane's report does not change his view of the bailout. However, he also says that there's no doubt that the law was broken during the bailout.Mkhwebane has since referred the matter to the Special Investigating Unit to recover an amount of R1.1 billion.(Edited by Zinhle Nkosi)