Helen Zille and the DA reached a political settlement where she will step down from her positions on all decision making structures of the party. JOHANNESBURG While the Democratic Alliance (DA) leader Mmusi Maimane says Helen Zille s work in the party will be confined to the Western Cape premiership, the premier herself says she will still be involved with the party on the ground.On Tuesday, Zille and the DA reached a political settlement where she will step down from her positions on all decision making structures of the party but remain premier of the Western Cape.She also issued a new apology for her tweets that defended some aspects of colonialism and admitted that she shouldn t have continued to defend the views after the first apology.Maimane says Helen Zille will only focus on the Western Cape government. The work that Helen must do in government must continue. But when Eyewitness News asked Zille how it feels to walk away from decision-making structures, she said she will still be involved in other party activities. I ll be involved in all sorts of other things. I ll be at by-elections in my t-shirt and whatever you want. She says while she doesn't need to be part of the decision-making bodies for the DA to perform well, she doesn't want to do anything that undermines the party s 2019 project.WATCH: DA and Zille reach settlement around colonialism tweetMaimane says the party decided to allow Helen Zille to continue as Western Cape premier because she runs a good government and the decision was made in the interests of reconciliation.The DA leader said Zille is doing well as premier in the Western Cape. I also have to consider the type of government we run in the Western Cape and she runs a good government. He said the decision for Zille to step down from party structures was also in the name of reconciliation. It is an idea that even if we disagree, reconciliation is always better because we are better together and I think that s important to take forward. I wanted to ensure that the party can move on and focus on the objectives of 2019. It's unclear who initiated this big political decision as Zille says she offered to step down from the structures, while Maimane says they asked her to.(Edited by Leeto M Khoza)