On Thursday the EFF leader Julius Malema revealed alleged corruption at Transnet, which involves a tender for just over a thousand locomotives in 2012. JOHANNESBURG - Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader Julius Malema says his party will now report an alleged Transnet illegal tender worth billions of rands to foreign authorities because the entire South African security cluster has been captured by the controversial Gupta family.Malema has lodged criminal charges against President Jacob Zuma, Malusi Gigaba and the Guptas at the Johannesburg Central Police Station.On Thursday, the EFF leader revealed alleged corruption at Transnet, which involves a tender for just over a thousand locomotives in 2012.#EFFTransnet Malema is addressing his supporters outside the JHB Central Police Station.TK pic.twitter.com/RhBASJV0DVMalema has told his supporters outside the Johannesburg Central Police Station that he knows while he s lodged charges against those implicated in the alleged irregular tender, nothing will be done. We know police will not do anything because they re also captured. They report to the Guptas the NPA is captured. He says his party will not rest until Zuma and those implicated in alleged corruption face the full might of the law.Malema says the EFF will use every avenue possible to ensure that those implicated in the looting of the state are called to account. The police are not acting against this black elite, including Shaun Abrahams. He is a captured soul that occupies the national director of public prosecution. He must know that when power changes hands he is going to be prosecuted himself. The EFF leader says he ll now take up the matter with foreign authorities whose companies have also been linked to the alleged corruption. Because there s an American company which also bought this tender, we re also reporting to the Chinese government. Malema says he will not hold his breath on any action being taken here at home, especially under the leadership of the African National Congress as corruption is celebrated and not punished.#EFFTransnet Party leader Julius Malema arrives to open criminal case against now Finance minister Malusi Gigaba.KG pic.twitter.com/UqVPLBkL4L(Edited by Zamangwane Shange)