Former Finance Minister Nhlanhla Nene says he&#8217;s disturbed by the emergence of a letter linked to a Transnet&#8217;s locomotive deal. JOHANNESBURG - Former Finance Minister Nhlanhla Nene says a letter linked to the procurement by Transnet of R30 billion worth of locomotives is a fabrication and that the entire issue is disturbing.On Tuesday morning, several newspapers owned by Times Media reported that the letter was found in emails linked to the Gupta leaks.They say the letter was written by a senior economic advisor at Regiments Capital and then ended up at the email address belonging to the CEO of Sahara Computers, which is owned by the Gupta family.Nene says he s disturbed by the emergence of this letter. It's quite scary because when you see this you don t know how many such activities might have taken place. But it would be good to see whether there s more. And he says that he hopes there is some kind of resolution to the Gupta leaks and the situation within the government. These things are really concerning and I would really hope that one of these days we ll get to the bottom of this. And that these letters will be addressed because we have a country and it s got so much potential. Nene was fired as finance minister by President Jacob Zuma in December 2015, before Zuma was forced by the African National Congress to appoint Pravin Gordhan, who was then removed in March 2017. TREASURY MUST DEAL WITH FAKE LETTER Nene says he wants Treasury to deal with a letter created in his name.Nene says he believes the National Treasury needs to investigate this letter and find out what exactly happened. I regard the matter as that of the department because whatever I did at the Treasury was in my capacity as Minister of Finance and not a personal matter. It s quite disturbing. And he's been asked if he believes the Gupta leaks are genuine. Amongst the letters, there s this letter which is fake but also there s a letter that comes from our office, which I find strange that it ended up in the Sahara entry. Nene says he s as worried about the country as everybody else.(Edited by Zamangwane Shange)