The Constitutional Court has confirmed that it will make its judgement in Parliament's secret ballot vote on Thursday at 10am. JOHANNESBURG - The Constitutional Court has confirmed that it will make its judgement in Parliament's secret ballot vote on Thursday at 10am.The Constitutional Court last month reserved judgment in the United Democratic Movement s (UDM) bid to allow members of Parliament (MP) to vote in secret in a motion of no confidence in Zuma.The Speaker of Parliament Baleka Mbete has argued that the rules of Parliament don t provide for a secret ballot.In the wake of Zuma's controversial Cabinet reshuffle at the end of March, the opposition asked Mbete to schedule a vote of no confidence in the president.It was initially set down for April, however, the UDM asked for it to be postponed pending the application to the court for the vote to take place in secret.Opposition parties hoped this would encourage enough ANC MPs to vote against Zuma for it to succeed.Opposition parties hope this would encourage enough ANC MPs to vote against Zuma for it to succeed.President Zuma's lawyer advocate Ishmail Semenya told the Constitutional Court it s not true that voting through an open ballot would render Parliament unable to hold the president accountable.Mbete's legal counsel, Advocate Marumo Moerane argued that the UDM jumped the gun by running to the courts when Parliament hasn't failed in its constitutional obligations.But UDM Leader Bantu Holomisa says they expect the court to give Parliament some guidance. We are merely expecting the ConCourt to say: make use of the prerogative you have in terms of the sections so and so of the Constitution; we are not expecting the ConCourt to instruct Parliament. In a surprising turn, Zuma's lawyer then conceded there was no downside to the secret ballot, which led the UDM to ask why then the president continued to oppose the application.In May, UDM legal representative Dali Mpofu said: Chief Justice, this is a very important matter for our democracy and all our citizens who are represented by members of Parliament. Mpofu said they will prove that the secret ballot must happen. One approach we ll take is [to] demonstrate that it cannot be prohibited. In other words, the only obstacle the respondents can bring is to demonstrate that it s prohibited and we ll show it s out of the question. He said Mbete failed to discharge her obligation to arrange a secret ballot as a constitutional representative of Parliament.&quot;We are saying the Speaker comes in two guises. She comes as the Speaker, but also the constitutional representative of Parliament. Mpofu said the rules of law are very clear on the Speakers' role. Our case is very simple. The Speaker has the obligation to arrange for a private ballot. We are pleading that she has such an obligation to arrange it and she has failed to do it. 