Nick Jonas says his father Kevin Jonas Sr is now cancer free, after being treated for colon cancer. LONDON - The Jonas Brothers' father Kevin Jonas Sr is cancer free. The 52-year-old father of the former pop group - comprised of Kevin Jonas Jr, 29, Joe Jonas, 27, and Nick Jonas, 24 - revealed in March that he was diagnosed with the disease and underwent surgery, which Nick says was a success. Speaking to iHeartRadio's Label Defiers with ZICO Coconut Water podcast, Nick said: "My father just had a journey with colon cancer and he's cancer-free now, or on the tail end of it, all is good. Being here with him when he went in to have his tumour removed was a really special thing and really important. "I had a lot of things on my schedule, but I said, 'I'm going to be here with you and walk through this with you and the family.' And it was a moment of pride for all of us to say, 'Alright, all that we been through, with the brothers, and Dad being a manager at one time,' to be able to be there with him, be a unit as a family, is something I think, we should be really proud of." Kevin - who also has 16-year-old son Frankie Jonas with his wife Denise Miller-Jonas - previously said his sons were understandably "shaken" when he received the diagnoses, and all rushed to be at his side as he was taken to hospital. He said: "They were shaken. Frankie came home from school, Nick came from LA, Joe flew directly from Japan - they cancelled their schedules, moved important things. They stayed with us, last meal before surgery. They walked me into Sloan Kettering [Cancer hospital in New York City], which created a little bit of a stir." Meanwhile, Nick also revealed that being godfather to his niece has made him want to have children of his own. He said: "Absolutely [I want to be a father]. I mean I have two beautiful nieces. I'm the godfather to one of them. I held my nieces and it all kind of made sense. My brother Kevin is the happiest man in the world and he loves his wife and his beautiful girls. "It's an amazing marriage and he's a great father. And I think that it's one of those things where he got married young and had kids fairly young in today's world. But he said to me, 'I think it's the best choice I've ever made. I think this is an amazing thing for me'. I think it's not right now for me. But at some point in the future, I'd love to be a father."