Beyoncé has "been a real blessing" for the people of Houston, Texas, following the devastation caused by Hurricane Harvey. LONDON - Beyoncé has "been a real blessing" for the people of Houston, Texas, following the devastation caused by Hurricane Harvey. The 35-year-old singer hails from the city which was ravaged by the natural disaster over the weekend, and previously announced her charity BeyGOOD was assisting with a relief effort to "help as many as [they] can". And her church pastor Rudy Rasmus has now praised the Formation hitmaker for "stepping up" during the city's time of need. He said of the star: "Beyoncé is extremely private and has done a lot that she has requested that we don't announce and publicise over the years. So right now I think to each his own, she has always taken a position to help this city in its time of need, and now is no different. She has really stepped up and it's been a real blessing for us." Rasmus - who is the pastor for St. John's Church in downtown Houston - is currently working with BeyGOOD to gather supplies, which will be taken to those in need once the heavy rainfall clears. He added: "We are right now mobilising to gather as many supplies as we can, knowing that in the next few days when the skies start clearing, people are going to be in intense need of items that of just right now have already lost in their homes due to the flooding." The pastor also added that people are able to donate to the cause by visiting BreadOfLifeInc.org. Speaking to TMZ.com, Rasmus said: "But however a person cares to participate we are grateful for everyone who is right now sending their hearts and their prayers toward those who are in distress in Houston, Texas." Meanwhile, Beyoncé recently sent her condolences to those affected by the disaster and said a relief effort would be set up by BeyGOOD as soon as possible. She said: "My heart goes out to my hometown, Houston, and I remain in constant prayer for those affected and for the rescuers who have been so brave and determined to do so much to help. "I am working closely with my team at BeyGOOD as well as my pastor to implement a plan to help as many as we can."