SuperSport United CEO Stan Matthews has been critical of Jeremy Brockie and how he&#8217;s handled the whole situation surrounding his future. JOHANNESBURG SuperSport United CEO Stan Matthews has told EWN Sport that star striker Jeremy Brockie will not be leaving the club, despite him handing in his transfer request last week.Brockie has been the subject of transfer speculation for some months, with Mamelodi Sundowns coach Pitso Mosimane making it clear that he wants the 29-year-old to join him at Chloorkop describing Brockie as a sniper he could do with.The New Zealander was left out of the starting 11 for the clashes against Kaizer Chiefs in the league last week and the first leg of their MTN 8 semi-final against Maritzburg United, adding to the rumours that he won t be at the club for very long. Matsatsantsa won the Chiefs game, but drew against Maritzburg.Matthews has been critical of Brockie and how he s handled the situation surrounding his future, saying that the striker must show professionalism and respect the agreement between him and the club. You can t come one week before the transfer window and expect us to engineer a move. We ve planned our squad for the season and we have a player under contract and he has three years on his contract. SuperSport are targeting the MTN 8, the Telkom Knockout, the Nedbank Cup, the Premiership title and the CAF Confederation Cup, which they re still involved in, and Brockie is the current top goal scorer in the Confed Cup with nine goals.Matthews added that they will allow Brockie to leave, but not right now. As a club, we haven t wanted to stand in players way and Jeremy is no different. If he s been offered ridiculous numbers from other teams and we can t match those numbers, then there is going to come a point where we will be prepared to let Jeremy go, but that s got to be in accordance with the club s time frames, not his own. We can t have a situation where players don t respect their contracts. The club CEO made it clear that the only way Brockie will be allowed to leave is if he fulfills his end of the deal and helps the club to achieve its goals. Jeremy has a road map to get out of the club. I personally gave him that road map to get out of the club. He knows what he needs to do in order to engineer a move; in terms of scoring goals, helping us win trophies and displaying a positive attitude at the club. &quot;We re not going to be dictated to by a player as to when they leave the club. When they re free, when their contracts have expired, then they re welcome to go to any club that they want. It needs to be something that s good for the club and selling Jeremy Brockie is not good for the club. Brockie is expected to make his return to the starting team when Matsatsantsa return from the international break to face Maritzburg in the second leg of the MTN 8 at the Harry Gwala Stadium.Meanwhile, the transfer window officially closes on 31 August with no more major deals expected to happen.