Here is a sampling of reaction from celebrities who knew and admired Lewis' comedic genius. NEW YORK - Jerry Lewis, who parlayed his distinctive style of low-brow comedy into a long-running movie and stage career and became a fixture on the American calendar with his Labor Day charity telethon, died in Las Vegas on Sunday at the age of 91. Here is a sampling of reaction from celebrities who knew and admired Lewis' comedic genius: The White House, in a statement: "Jerry Lewis kept us all laughing for over half a century, and his incredible charity work touched the lives of millions. Jerry lived the American Dream - he truly loved his country, and his country loved him back. Our thoughts are with his family today as we remember the extraordinary life of one of our greatest entertainers and humanitarians. Thank you, Jerry. You will be missed." Movie director Martin Scorsese, in a statement: "Jerry Lewis was a master. He was a giant. He was an innovator. He was a great entertainer. He was a great artist. And he was a remarkable man. I had the honour of working with him, and it was an experience I'll always treasure. He was, truly, one of our greats." Nancy Sinatra, daughter of Frank Sinatra, on Twitter: "Dear Jerry, Dad will be as happy to see you as I'm sad to see you go. Give him one of your bear hugs for me. I'll always love you."  Deana Martin, daughter of Dean Martin, Lewis' longtime comedic partner, on Twitter: "I'm heartbroken at the loss of our life-long friend (Uncle) Jerry Lewis. I've loved him all my life and will miss him greatly."  Comedian and actor Carol Burnett on CNN: "What a wonderful legacy Jerry Lewis leaves for all of us, in his films, television appearances. We can still go back there and laugh. He provided belly laughs. And you don't get too many belly laughs nowadays. A lot of comedy has to be edgy. But his comedy holds up." Comedian Jim Carrey, on Twitter: "That fool was no dummy. Jerry Lewis was an undeniable genius an unfathomable blessing, comedy's absolute! I am because he was!" Talk show host Jimmy Kimmel on Twitter:"Jerry Lewis was a genius comedian, actor, director, inventor, humanitarian."  Talk show host Larry King on Twitter: "Jerry lived to make the world laugh, and laugh we did for decades. His talent was surpassed only by his humanitarianism. Rest well pal." Actress Joan Collins on Twitter: "The King of Comedy Jerry Lewis was a tremendous talent and a good friend. Rest in Peace #jerrylewis. You'll be sorely missed." Actor and comedian Kumail Nanjiani on Twitter: "As a kid, I'm pretty sure I was the biggest Jerry Lewis fan in the world. Truly. R.I.P. Jerry Lewis." New Jersey Democratic Senator Cory Booker, on Twitter: "And the defiant healing and revealing power of laughter loses another titan. RIP Jerry Lewis" WATCH: Actor Jerry Lewis dies at age 91 