Mashaba says this is specifically for residents who have been in good standing with the city prior to February this year. JOHANNESBURG Joburg Mayor Herman Mashaba says all residents whose accounts are in arrears due to a problem with the city s billing system will have the interest charged on their accounts wiped off.Mashaba says this is specifically for residents who have been in good standing with the city prior to February this year.There have been complaints for years now about exorbitant bills.Mashaba apologised to residents. We re committing to this. The people will see this in their September statements that any interest charged to our paying residents, the interest will be reserved. Mashaba has vowed to alleviate the suffering that residents have had to endure as a result of the crisis.He says a lot of work will need to be done but his team will work tirelessly to solve the problem. I think I had no choice. If residents of the city remember well, during the entire duration, the entire period of my campaign, billing was a huge challenge and we need to do something about this billing. It is a crisis and now I ve taken it over myself with the MMC of Finance. BILLING CRISISIn May this year, Johannesburg s Finance MMC Rabelani Dagada said the city s billing had reached crisis levels, saying that the new administration has already started tackling the issue.More than half of the R55.9 billion budget for the 2017/2018 financial year will be spent on the sustainable services cluster to improve service delivery and quality of life.Dagada said the billing crisis comes as a result of many changes that were brought into the revenue value chain which were not managed well. We ve begun implementing a number of interventions to turn the situation around, this includes the establishment of technical support services unit, to ensure complete billing is accurate and clear invoicing, effective payment process, effective credit management and improved customer management. In March, the city collected R3 billion, exceeding the revenue budget and setting a new record.At the same time, Dagada said the new administration has developed a comprehensive approach to maintaining, developing and expanding the city s road network.Dagada said the transport department alone receives an operating budget of R1.5 billion. We ve allocated R105 million for the installation and repair of broken traffic signals throughout the city. Already, I m pleased to say that over 70 traffic lights in the city, at key intersections have been re-cabled, producing greater reliability. (Edited by Leeto M Khoza)