Haynes argued that filmmakers often only see the actor for their 'personal life', rather than hiring them based on pure talent. LONDON - Colton Haynes has slammed homophobia in Hollywood, saying that LGBT+ actors are discriminated because of their "personal lives", rather than being hired on talent alone. The 29-year-old actor - who is currently engaged to celebrity florist Jeff Leatham - came out as gay last year, and has now taken to Twitter to hit out at the movie industry which he claims treats LGBT+ actors unfairly. Haynes argued that filmmakers often only see the actor for their "personal life", rather than hiring them based on pure talent. In a series of tweets posted on Wednesday, the Rough Night actor wrote: "Hollywood is so f***ed up. So much of the focus is on your personal life & has nothing to do with the talent you have to bring to the table.   However, the Teen Wolf actor wasn't always faced with hardships when it came to securing roles, as he previously said that despite having a "breakdown" when he came out in 2016, he was also given "multiple offers for work". When asked during a Q&A earlier this year if it was a challenge to come out, Haynes wrote: "It was an intense struggle for years. All the self-shame led me to have a breakdown and I had to quit for a while. Once I came out it all went away. I got multiple offers for work and honestly haven’t felt better. It changes your life and if someone isn’t going to hire me for being born the way that I am...they don’t deserve my time or energy. (sic)" And Haynes is "proud" of who he is, and says coming out as gay "changed [his] life for the better." He said: "I can honestly say that it takes time to be comfortable enough to come out...it has to be on your own time but when I did...it changed my life for the better! It opened up so many doors for me and I don’t have to feel like the elephant in the room anymore. There’s so much support I never knew was available for me and I am so proud to say that I am gay and it hasn’t done anything to hurt what I love to do in life. Times are thankfully changing. (sic)"