The DA's motion of no confidence in President Jacob Zuma failed on Tuesday, with just 21 votes separating the two sides. CAPE TOWN - Democratic Alliance (DA) leader Mmusi Maimane says that his party will bring a motion to dissolve Parliament.The DA's motion of no confidence in President Jacob Zuma failed on Tuesday, with just 21 votes separating the two sides.A total of 177 Members of Parliament voted in favour of the motion, while 198 voted against it and nine abstained.As South Africa digests those results, African National Congress (ANC) heavyweight Lindiwe Zulu says it is unacceptable that some party members voted with the opposition.#VoteOfNoConfidence Maimane, the motion to dissolve Parliament will be tabled tomorrow. KB#VoteOfNoConfidence Maimane, calling for an early election is the responsible thing to do. KBZulu says this situation needs to be dealt with. While the Constitution can be able to say what it says, the bottom line is this, I am a member of the African National Congress and when collectively as the ANC we make a particular decision, we go according to that decision. NO WITCH HUNTANC Chief Whip Jackson Mthmbu says there is no witch hunt for ANC MPs who broke ranks to vote against President Jacob Zuma in the motion of no-confidence vote.Mthembu says that Tuesday s mandate in the motion of confidence against the president was not to vote with opposition parties and has applauded those who defended the party.He says the party is satisfied that the ANC did not take part in what would have been a suicidal move. We will not be going on a witch hunt because we are not that type of an organization. Other members of the opposition saying over 50 ANC MPs will vote with them, that is what Julius said. WATCH: President Zuma survives motion of no confidenceDO SOME WITHIN ANC WANT TO REMOVE ZUMA?After at least 30 ANC MPs rebelled against instructions to vote to retain the president yesterday, some people in the party may feel it's time for yet another move within the ANC itself to remove Zuma.They may believe that if they don't act soon, the rebellion against party discipline could grow and that more voters will lose faith in the party.But Zuma and his allies are unlikely to remain still. He could try to discipline those who have spoken out against him.Zuma has appeared to be on the back foot for most of the year. It's possible he could try to regain the political initiative but time is running out ahead of the ANC's December conference.