It will be Pirates coach Kjell Jonevret&#8217;s first derby and only his second match since taking over last week. JOHANNESBURG The Soweto Derby takes centre stage this weekend, as Kaizer Chiefs host troubled Orlando Pirates at Soccer City.It will be Pirates coach Kjell Jonevret s first derby and only his second match since taking over last week.Meanwhile, Steve Komphela will be going for his first derby three points.Komphela says he can t promise that they will win the match. Unfortunately if it s a draw then it comes to be the accountability on the two of us. But every coach who approaches whatever match, goes in there with an intention to want to win and margins in matches of this nature are very small. So whoever takes advantage of whatever is available will get away with it, and if not, it s a pity. Come Saturday I hope Kaizer Chiefs takes advantage. He says his striking combination is determined by which players are on form. There s been those who played together. Shabba, Parker have done very well recently. We have Gustavo Paez, we also have a Machar, quite a few. But your team sheets will point at who had been the better of the lot and obviously it is pointed at by the results. Jonevret says his tactics are simply to attack hard and keep things sealed at the back. Full speed forward, keep close backwards, that s a good tactic and a clean sheet. But again it depends because a game like that raises lots of nerves on players. You never know how they re going to react when they get out there, but absolutely we should try at least to get a draw and that will be a good result for us. Jonevret says the boys are eager to get stuck into the game. I think they re really looking forward to this because this season has been a little trouble and I think everybody in the club are little disappointed with how things have been at this moment. So this is a big chance for them to boost the morale. I think they have reacted very well in training, they look happy. Lots of smiles in the locker room. Kick off is at 3:30 pm.(Edited by Leeto M Khoza)