Exactly one year ago today the Constitutional Court delivered what we all thought would be a devastating blow against President Jacob Zuma.The court found that Zuma and the National Assembly had violated the Constitution by setting aside the Public Protector's suggestions for remedial action on Nkandla and on whether he should #PayBackTheMoney.Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng was abundantly clear: &quot;The President thus failed to uphold, defend and respect the Constitution as the supreme law of the land. This failure is manifest from the substantial disregard for the remedial action taken against him by the public protector in terms of her constitutional powers.&quot;But it didn't end there. Mogoeng continued with the following, damning words:&quot;The President s alleged disregard for the remedial action taken against him, does seem to amount to a breach of a constitutional obligation.&quot;Which sitting president can survive that? Which functional democracy would allow a president to escape so unscathed? Because unscathed is how he emerged - with a few minor scratches inflicted on him by parliamentary scuffles and the Sassa crisis (what crisis? There is no crisis. Insert giggle).It was a profoundly significant moment in our democracy. And we waited. We waited for the tide to turn and for action to be taken.There was a violation of the Constitution, after all. By the president. Of the Republic.But our president of nine lives survived, and continued to plunder.And so we find ourselves here. At another point in our history, exactly one year later!We shake our heads, yet again, in utter disbelief at the actions of Number 1.A massive Cabinet reshuffle announced in the dead of night that shakes our political landscape to the core.We mustn t allow ourselves to be fooled by the many shuffles and changes though, and while we scrutinise new names in new portfolios, and while we attempt to decipher who is qualified for what, we must understand that essentially it s about two people, and their ultimate annihilation. It s all about Pravin Gordhan and his deputy Mcebisi Jonas the man who famously refused a bag full of cash from the Guptas. It s all about the Treasury and that s where our focus must remain.A senior Treasury official once told me that shortly after the controversial Nhanhla Nene firing, Gordhan gathered them all together and told them to protect the Treasury with everything they had. To stand tall and strong and guard it like soldiers in battle their armour at the ready. They tried, but failed and their generals have now been taken out in a poisonous political war being played out somewhere between the Union Buildings and Saxonwold (dare I say Dubai).We can only hope that those very soldiers - who gave their former leaders a heartwarming and moving sendoff that brought many of us to tears have taken heed of that clarion call and will continue to do their utmost to protect us all.Katy Katopodis is EWN group editor-in-chief. Follow her on Twitter: @KatyKatopodis