Aaron Motsoaledi says the contractor who was hired for maintenance will be held accountable for the collapse. JOHANNESBURG - Emergency services say all workers at the Charlotte Maxeke Academic Hospital have been accounted for following a roof collapse at the facility s main entrance.Five people were injured, two of them outpatients, when a section on the fifth floor caved in on Thursday afternoon near the main entrance.Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi says the company hired to do maintenance work on the roof failed to assess its strength before piling weight on it.Motsoaledi addressed the media and says the maintenance company should be held accountable for the roof collapsing and injuring people.Sharing his sentiments, infrastructure MEC Jacob Mamabolo says the company will be removed from site effective from Thursday night. We don t think there was a preliminary check of the capacity and the structure of the building to carry that weight and that is why it collapsed. Emergency services continue to drill and dig through the rubble and say they are just making sure that no one else may be still trapped.Gauteng Premier David Makhura was also on the scene as families of patients receiving treatment at the hospital were waiting outside the building for any information. Emergency services are expecting to have the rubble from the Charlotte Maxeke roof collapse cleared within the next hour or two.Emergency services CEO Arnold Malotana said: It is quite a fair amount of rubble, but we estimate that within the next hour or two we should have cleared it. And the scene will be declared clear. The Gauteng health MEC Gwen Ramokgopa is also on the scene this evening.WATCH: Gauteng Health MEC reacts to Charlotte Maxeke Hospital roof collapseER24 paramedics are working hand-in-hand with other emergency services and have already gone through a portion of the rubble.Spokesperon Russel Meiring said, Emergency services have cleared one small sector of the rubble. We are still working hard at the moment. Motsoaledi says the contractor who was hired for maintenance will be held accountable for the collapse. He says the company did not consider safety measures while they were busy with their maintenance.The health minister says the contractual agreement of the maintenance company which was contracted to waterproof the roof of the hospital is terminated with immediate effect.Parts of the slap roof caved in earlier this afternoon allegedly because of excessive weight.#CharlotteMaxeke Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi just arrived. CE pic.twitter.com/GLJDFiHabB#CharlotteMaxeke Premier David Makhura just arrived. CE pic.twitter.com/8nsvrRhY4u#CharlotteMaxeke The K9 unit is also on the scene. CE pic.twitter.com/XjNXJgMfSp