Cyril Ramaphosa rejected suggestions that government has abandoned nation-building efforts spearheaded by Nelson Mandela. He addressed issues relating to Sassa, land and the integration of foreign nationals. PARLIAMENT - Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa has rejected suggestions that the government has abandoned nation-building efforts spearheaded by the country s first democratic president, Nelson Mandela.Ramaphosa is answering questions in the National Assembly.African Christian Democratic Party leader Reverend Kenneth Meshoe put the questions. Even helpless 95-year-old grandmothers are not spared. They re raped, strangled with telephone cords and killed in their own homes, as happened this past week in Port Elizabeth. Would the deputy president then agree that government s efforts to encourage social cohesion are failing? Because government has departed from prioritising reconciliation and nation building that has been initiated and spearheaded by Nelson Mandela. Ramaphosa told Meshoe he d detailed government s efforts to build social cohesion. I cannot agree that government has failed in its effort and task to promote and foster social cohesion in our country. We continue to deal with this matter as a priority and indeed the various programmes and interventions that we re embarking on are aimed at precisely promoting social cohesion. ADDRESSING THE LAND QUESTIONRamaphosa says amending the Constitution is one way of addressing the land question, but not the only one.Ramaphosa has been answering burning questions on the land issue and concerns around the grants crisis.Ramaphosa was asked by the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) if he supports their call for land to be expropriated without compensation.The African National Congress (ANC) voted against the notion in the National Assembly last week.But just days later, President Jacob Zuma told the National House of Traditional Leaders there should be a single law to allow for land expropriation without compensation.The EFF's Marshall Dlamini put the question: Your president (Jacob Zuma) has said it, regardless of whether it is ANC policy or not do you support the call that we must amend section 25 of the Constitution and expropriate land without compensation?&quot;Ramaphosa responded: When you hear the president speaking on this matter he's speaking from a deep-seated pain that is felt by all black people in our country.&quot; Ramaphosa says ways must be found to deal with the issue. Amending the Constitution is one of the strategies, but it is by no means the only one. Implementing what we've got in our Constitution is also another strategy and doing a whole number of things are strategies we should utilise. Ramaphosa says he doesn't think President Zuma was being divisive in calling for expropriation without compensation.SOCIAL GRANTS DEBACLECalls are mounting for the resignation Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini amid the social grants debacle.But, Ramaphosa has deflected a debate on her fitness to hold office, saying he s confident the Constitutional Court will make the right decision.Ramaphosa says the matter is also being dealt with at the highest level of government and opposition parties should allow the Social Development department to do its work.The Democratic Alliance (DA) wanted to know how many times Ramaphosa had asked Dlamini to appear before the National Assembly and the Portfolio Committee on Social Development since 2014.But Ramaphosa batted away the question saying Parliament had more rights to call MPs to account than he did as the leader of government business.This opened up a debate on the social grants issue with DA leader Mmusi Maimane calling for Dlamini's resignation.The United Democratic Movement (UDM)'s Bantu Holomisa also questioned her fitness to hold office.In response, Ramaphosa said he's confident the matter is receiving the necessary attention. It s a matter of enormous proportions many of our people are concerned, but the matter is being dealt with and I m absolutely certain a solution is going to be found. The Social Development Agency has until Monday to provide the Constitutional Court with all details related to a new contract to pay social grants.IMPROVING THE INTEGRATION OF FOREIGN NATIONALSMeanwhile, Ramaphosa has revealed government is considering building asylum reception centres closer to the country's northern border as part of efforts to improve the integration of foreign nationals.He says government is also reviewing its Refugee and Immigration Policy.Ramaphosa says civil unrest involving foreign nationals is not only an issue of law enforcement, but has its roots in socio-economic issues and the competition for scarce resources. We must as South Africans stand united against all form of criminal behaviour, racism, sexism and xenophobia. We must ensure that all the people, regardless of where they come from, are treated with dignity as well as with respect. (Edited by Zamangwane Shange)