There are various proposals in the nine discussion documents released on Saturday. JOHANNESBURG - The African National Congress (ANC) has launched its policy discussion documents for its conference in June.The party held a briefing earlier on Sunday, with its chairpersons of the various NEC sub committees.Members of the party will now review the implementation of the current policies and propose areas for the review of policies to be adopted at the national conference in December.There are various proposals in the nine discussion documents released on Saturday.ANC head of policy Jeff Radebe says the economic transformation document is identified as one of the drivers of radical economic transformation. Returning the land to our people and supporting land reform. We need to provide greater certainty for codifying the constitutional requirement of just and equitable compensation for the acquisition of land. He says the legislature and governance document highlights the ANC's conduct in state institutions. The deployment of cadres to the state must be based on merit, recruit public service managers with professional and technical capacity. And the organisational renewal discussion document-deals largely with the state of the party. This document recognises that he ANC is increasingly losing trust of the people as illustrated by the declining electoral performance and intense public criticism. The organisation must act urgently to restore its moral character. The document also proposes that the size of the NEC be reduced and that the ANC must limit the number of NEC members that serve in government.At the same time, the ANC s discussion document on Education and health, proposes that a new financial support model be finalised and fully implemented soon to ensure poor students who are academically capable, have access to higher education.Radebe said, A new financial support model to ensure that poor academically capable working class and middle class students are supported to access higher education, must be finalised and implemented by 2020. Cde Jeff Radebe live chat on #ANCPolicy pic.twitter.com/u3zHahY1JbCde Enoch Godongwana responds to questions on Economic Transformation #ANCPolicy pic.twitter.com/zmJeWn1WOmCde Naledi Pandor responds to questions on Health, Education, Science &amp; Technology #ANCPolicy pic.twitter.com/SQ601fW8u4cde Lindiwe Sisulu responds to questions on Social Transformation #ANCPolicy pic.twitter.com/cCsBcq7Liw