JSE Limited chief executive Nicky Newton-King says they managed to meet a number of investors, who are now being cautious. JOHANNESBURG - The Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) Limited chief executive Nicky Newton-King says a number of investors have now adopted a wait and see approach after Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan was instructed to return home.Gordhan was on an investment roadshow in the UK and had already met with some investors when President Jacob Zuma instructed him to return to the country yesterday.Newton-King, who was with Gordhan, says they managed to meet a number of investors.However, she says many are now cautious. There are really important stakeholders who said they are going to wait and see; get through the next couple of days and decide how we continue the conversation. This is extremely concerning for the country. Meanwhile, Public Service and Administration Minister Ngaoko Ramathlodi says he hopes President Zuma takes into account the wider interests of the country while making any decision about the future of Gordhan.Ramathlodi was moved from the Mineral Resources Ministry in 2015 and replaced by Mosebenzi Zwane.He says he is aware of the reports that Zuma may be moving against Gordhan. I really hope those who make decisions, [especially] the President when he makes his decisions, considers the wider interest of the country. Earlier on Tuesday Gordhan confirmed he is still the finance minister but he declined to provide details about his meeting at Luthuli House earlier. The minister was speaking outside the High Court in Pretoria on Tuesday afternoon, where his application related to several Gupta-owned companies was being heard. The finance minister said questions around why he was instructed to return home must be directed to the Presidency. He arrived in Johannesburg on a flight from London on Tuesday morning, amid mounting speculation about his future, and went to the ANC headquarters soon after landing. Gordhan said he was at Luthuli House to &quot;have a discussion - which he did - and then he left. Speaking outside court on Tuesday afternoon, Gordhan told journalists not to believe rumours and he wouldn t be drawn on speculation about his position. If there is anything official to say, we will say it. I m still the Finance Minister and that is why I m here to listen to how the application is going end of story. When asked what was discussed at Luthuli House while he was there, he said: Must I ask you what you discussed with your employer this morning? He said he believed the case is going fairly well for now. (Edited by Winnie Theletsane)