Last week, Telkom threatened to cut services to the system unless Tasima made a payment of R8 million. JOHANNESBURG The Road Traffic Management Cooperation (RTMC) says according to court papers in its possession Tasima has made a payment to Telkom, giving assurance that the National Traffic Information System (Enatis) system will not be disrupted this morning.Last week, Telkom threatened to cut services to the system unless Tasima made a payment of R8 million.The eNatis system runs a number of functions including the application and renewal of driver s licenses and the validation of vehicle ownership at the country s borders.On Friday, the RTMC launched an urgent court application to have Tasima hand over the system as per a court ruling in November last year.In a statement, Tasima has confirmed that it made a payment to Telkom and that Telkom has undertaken not to suspend any services.RTMC CEO Makhosini Msibi says he is confident all licensing centers will be fully operational this morning. In terms of the court papers that we received on Friday, there was confirmation that payment has been made to Telkom. That gives an assurance that the system will not be down today and will not be cut. Msibi says in view of the pending case, the data cannot be cut. We re certain that it will be all systems go and all clients will be served at all our DLTC despite the earlier threat that the lines will be cut. In terms of court papers, until Thursday, there wouldn t be any action that will be taken to jeopardise all our service providers. At the same time, the Justice Project South Africa says the current saga is a result of poor decision-making in the initial deal.Justice Project South Africa s Howard Dembovsky says the current mess has been a bomb waiting to explode. If one thinks about this logically, the position of the national vehicle registry should never have been in the hands of a private company, never. So it was bad decision-making right from the beginning. Dembovsky says somebody needs to be held accountable for the corruption in this deal.He says while it is for the best that the eNatis system be handed over to government, they have not proven themselves able to run it.(Edited by Leeto M Khoza)