In an organisational renewal document, the ANC makes a frank assessment of the state of the party. JOHANNESBURG The African National Congress (ANC) says widespread corruption, poor performance in government and abuse of organisational processes for personal gain are factors that will contribute to the party s demise if not addressed.The party launched its nine policy discussion documents in Johannesburg on Sunday for its conference in June.In the organisational renewal document, the ANC makes a frank assessment of the state of the party.ANC head of policy Jeff Radebe said, The ANC s own internal challenges, such as social distance between leaders and members, widespread corruption, poor performance in government and abuse of organisational processes for personal gain will contribute to the ANC s demise if left unattended. In the legislature and governance discussion document, there is a proposal for lifestyle audits of senior public officials set within the context of fighting corruption.ECONOMIC TRANSFORMATIONRadebe said the economic transformation document is identified as one of the drivers of radical economic transformation. Returning the land to our people and supporting land reform. We need to provide greater certainty for codifying the constitutional requirement of just and equitable compensation for the acquisition of land. He said the legislature and governance document highlights the ANC's conduct in state institutions. The deployment of cadres to the state must be based on merit, recruiting public service managers with professional and technical capacity. And the organisational renewal discussion document deals largely with the state of the party. This document recognises that the ANC is increasingly losing trust of the people as illustrated by the declining electoral performance and intense public criticism. The organisation must act urgently to restore its moral character, to win back the trust of the people. The document also proposes that the size of the NEC be reduced and that the ANC must limit the number of NEC members that serve in government.At the same time, the ANC s discussion document on education and health, proposes that a new financial support model be finalised and fully implemented soon to ensure poor students who are academically capable have access to higher education.Radebe said, A new financial support model to ensure that poor academically capable working-class and middle-class students are supported to access higher education must be finalised and implemented by 2020. (Edited by Leeto M Khoza)