The EFF, along with a number of other opposition groups, are looking to the Constitutional Court to order that President Zuma faces disciplinary action for breaking his oath of office. JOHANNESBURG Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader Julius Malema says now that President Jacob Zuma has fired Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan, opposition parties will vote in support of a motion of the confidence against the president.The red berets, along with a number of other opposition groups, are looking to the Constitutional Court to order that Zuma faces disciplinary action for breaking his oath of office.On Thursday, the Democratic Alliance (DA) indicated it will table a motion of no confidence in Zuma.Malema says his party will support the DA s motion. The motion of no confidence has been put before Baleka Mbete by the DA. Once Zuma says Pravin Gordhan is gone, then the matter is going to serve before Parliament, then we re going to vote for Zuma to leave and a number of ANC members in Parliament will abstain. The DA has called on political parties to set aside their personal interest and support the party in its motion of no confidence against Zuma in the wake of his recent Cabinet reshuffle.The DA says Zuma s decision to fire Gordhan and his Deputy Mcebisi Jonas should be a rallying call for South Africans to unite in defense of the Constitution.The party has on a number of occasions tabled the motion before Parliament without success.Spokesperson Mabine Seabe says this motion is the most powerful message it can send. A motion of no confidence is the most powerful message we can send to the president that no longer would we support or no longer would Parliament support your mismanagement of the economy and mismanagement of the country. And equally so, as political parties, we must put our narrow differences aside. Meanwhile, there s been concern as to how the financial industry will react to newly appointed Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba, considering his experience in that ministry.Economist Russel Lamberti says he cannot imagine a good outlook for the economy in the wake of the axing of Gordhan and Jonas.Lamberti says the country may be in for a rough couple of weeks, with the rand reacting the same way it did when former Finance Minister Nhlanhla Nene was removed or even worse. The likelihood is that the foreign investment community, the local investment community are going to see it in a very bad light and it looks like we re in for another rough ride. It looks like a repeat of December 2015 but this time maybe more rougher. The Presidency released a statement in the early hours of Friday morning announcing the adjustments affecting 20 people.Zuma says the changes bring some younger Members of Parliament and women into the national executive to benefit from their energy and experience.(Edited by Leeto M Khoza)