The struggle stalwart passed away on Tuesday morning in Johannesburg at the age of 87. JOHANNESBURG - The African National Congress (ANC) has invited the public to Luthuli House to sign a condolence book in honour of the late Ahmed Kathrada.The struggle stalwart passed away on Tuesday morning in Johannesburg at the age of 87.The ANC says the book was made available at its headquarters earlier on Monday.WATCH: Madikizela-Mandela: We wish Kathrada hadn't left us at time of crisisSpeaker Baleka Mbete has added her voice to the chorus of sympathisers on the death of Kathrada.She s described him as a great South African who lived an exemplary life and one of the last of a generation of great leaders like Nelson Mandel a and Oliver Tambo. Mbete says without the amount of time and energy Kathrada gave in service to South Africans, the country would not enjoy today s democracy. It is with sadness that we bid him farewell, even though their bodies are gone, they remain with us in terms of the memories we will always keep with us, the lessons will always learn from. They remain with us in spirit, we will continue to be sustained by the legacy they have left us.&quot; She adds: We will remember him for the way he carried himself. I remember when he was still in Parliament, we went to Robben Island and he acted as our tour guide. It is one the most interesting tours I ever had because he was able to bring alive his own experiences. #ripahmedkathrada From meeting political leaders Yasser Arafat & Barack Obama, to attending children's charity events, #ewn takes a look, in pictures, at the life of #strugglestalwart Ahmed #kathrada who passed away this morning. : AFP & EWN.A post shared by Eyewitness News (@ewnupdates) on Mar 27, 2017 at 11:43pm PDTMeanwhile, India's Prime Minister Narendra Modi has tweeted a tribute to Kathrada on Tuesday afternoon. He says the struggle stalwart will be remembered as a remarkable personality, whose life was devoted to creating a just and equal society.I was honoured to have interacted with an inspiring personality like Dr. Ahmed Kathrada during my South Africa visit last year. pic.twitter.com/evrrjRi7KBDr. Ahmed Kathrada will be remembered as a remarkable personality, whose life was devoted to creating a just &amp; equal society. RIP.(Edited by Winnie Theletsane)