But the ANC&#8217;s economic transformation policy document makes no mention of changing the Constitution to allow land to be expropriated without compensation. JOHANNESBURG The African National Congress (ANC) s economic transformation policy document says the property clause in the Constitution must be codified and replace the idea of market value being used when land is bought for restitution.But the document makes no mention of changing the Constitution to allow land to be expropriated without compensation.The ANC s economic transformation policy document says the Constitutional Court has already ruled that land can be expropriated for redistribution without having to agree on the value of that land first.This could be seen as a suggestion that the party does not want to change the Constitution on this issue and appears to reject President Jacob Zuma s claim that black parties should work together to change the Constitution on the land issueThe document also says economic transformation cannot happen if the economy does not grow.It also spells out why the party believes international investors are important for the economy and says those investors will be looking for no further downgrades and policy certainty.2020 POLICY GOALSThere were various proposals in the nine discussion documents released on Saturday.ANC head of policy Jeff Radebe said the economic transformation document is identified as one of the drivers of radical economic transformation. Returning the land to our people and supporting land reform. We need to provide greater certainty for codifying the constitutional requirement of just and equitable compensation for the acquisition of land. He said the legislature and governance document highlighted the ANC s conduct in state institutions. The deployment of cadres to the state must be based on merit, recruiting public service managers with professional and technical capacity. And the organisational renewal discussion document deals largely with the state of the party. This document recognises that the ANC is increasingly losing trust of the people as illustrated by the declining electoral performance and intense public criticism. The organisation must act urgently to restore its moral character. The document also proposes that the size of the NEC be reduced and that the ANC must limit the number of NEC members that serve in government.At the same time, the ANC s discussion document on education and health proposes that a new financial support model be finalised and fully implemented soon to ensure poor students who are academically capable, have access to higher education.Radebe said, A new financial support model to ensure that poor academically capable working-class and middle-class students are supported to access higher education must be finalised and implemented by 2020. (Edited by Leeto M Khoza)