ANC secretary general Gwede Mantashe has confirmed he is not happy with President Jacob Zuma's decision to fire Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan. JOHANNESBURG African National Congress (ANC) s Secretary General Gwede Mantashe has commented on President Jacob Zuma s decision to fire Pravin Gordhan as Finance Minister.Mantashe has confirmed he is not happy with the decision. We were given a list that was complete and my own view as the Secretary-General, I felt like this list has been developed somewhere else and it s given to us to legitimise it. And my own view is that I m very uncomfortable because areas where ministers do not perform have not been touched. Ministers have been moved and the majority of them were good performing ministers. I m very much uncomfortable with it. The president has announced 20 changes to his Cabinet, with former ANC Youth League president Malusi Gigaba replacing Gordhan, while Sifiso Buthelezi will fill Jonas's position.On Thursday, the president called a meeting with the ANC s top six in the capital amidst speculations that he could be changing his Cabinet.Gordhan, Energy Minister Tina Joemat-Peterson, Transport Minister Dipuo Peters, Public Service and Administration Minister Ngoako Ramatlhodi and Tourism Minister Derek Hanekom have all been axed.Former Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba is the new Finance Minister, his deputy is former Prasa Board chair Sfiso Buthelezi, who replaces Mcebisi Jonas. The new Minister of Energy is former MP Mmamoloko Kubayi, the Tourism Minister has been replaced by his deputy Thokozile Xasa, former Communications Minister Faith Muthambi is now the Minister of Public Service and Administration.Former deputy minister of that department, Ayanda Dladla, takes over as Communications Minister.Hlengiwe Mkhize is the new Minister of Home Affairs - she was deputy Minister for Telecommunications.The new Sports Minister is former Public Works Minister Thulas Nxesi.Fikile Mbalula is the new Minister of Police. He was the Sports Minister and has previously served as police deputy minister.He takes over from Nathi Nhleko who is now the Public Works Minister.The new Minister of Transport replacing Peters is Joe Maswanganyi. He hails from Limpopo and once served as Sports MEC.PAYBACKThis is a big reshuffle and it appears Zuma has taken action against some of the people who've been critical of him.But Bathabile Dlamini stays on at Social Development, despite the criticism over the social grants payments system.Already groups like Save South Africa are calling on people to rise up, saying this is a brazen attempt to undermine the gains of the liberation struggle by taking power from the people and giving it to the Guptas.PROTESTSFormer Congress of South Africa Trade Unions general secretary Zwelinzima Vavi called for a protest at the offices of the National Treasury on Friday morning. Every South African, bring your flag and demonstrate peacefully. Let it be known that you stood up. There will now be pressure on Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa to act amid claims that he could actually have been planning to resign if Gordhan was moved.For the moment there's been no official reaction to this move by the ANC itself.MARKETSEconometrix chief economist Azar Jammine says the markets are watching this every closely. I think this is very negative for the markets and the probability is high that our credit rating will be downgraded to junk status. (Edited by Leeto M Khoza)