Gauteng MEC for Community Safety Sizakele Nkosi-Malobane says the rape survivors are now at a centre receiving medical and psychological attention. JOHANNESBURG As more women continue to come forward with information of sexual assaults by taxi drivers, Gauteng MEC for Community Safety Sizakele Nkosi-Malobane says police are now searching for a certain taxi driver and a vehicle. On Thursday, the MEC held a meeting with taxi associations in Johannesburg following reports of a string of sexual assaults on women by taxi drivers. Guys I think it s time that we act against these animals. I want that commitment from the police, I want that commitment from the taxi industry. The MEC made an appeal for assistance to find the perpetrators of sexual violence against women.She says several women have now come forward with information and police are searching for a white Quantum minibus taxi and a certain taxi driver. So we re confident that based on that information, we ll be able to effect arrests. Gauteng National Taxi Alliance s spokesperson Theo Malele says as an association, they will do their part. As an industry, we ll not stop at anything up until these perpetrators are actually brought to book. Nkosi-Malobane says the rape survivors are now at a centre receiving medical and psychological attention.Meanwhile, South African National Taxi Council (Santaco) has denied claims that the men who have been accused of raping and robbing women in taxis around Johannesburg are a part of the taxi industry.At least two women have told Eyewitness News how they were picked up by men driving a grey or white minibus taxi and attacked. Nkosi-Malobane says a number of taxi associations were called and the matter discussed.She also says the vehicle in question has been identified.However, Santaco s Ralph Jones says not only does he not know of a meeting held on Thursday, the vehicle has not been identified on the route.&quot;We have about six associations operating on that route and we have made some inquiries and none of them have identified the vehicle. But the MEC said that the vehicle has been identified and we'll appreciate it if we could get that information. It's not about the owner here, it's about the association.&quot;PETERS TO ACT TOUGHTransport Minister Dipuo Peters has condemned a spate of taxi-related rapes and sexual assaults in Johannesburg and has vowed that the owners of any taxis being used by the perpetrators will be dealt with harshly if it emerges that they are registered operators.Peters has promised taxi commuters in Johannesburg that the perpetrators will be found and brought to book. In the event we find that the vehicle used to commit the crimes was an operator that is licensed, we ll deal with that particular individual. Peters says her department will cooperate with the police, who are trying to determine if serial rapists posing as taxi operators are targeting women in the city.Two women have spoken to Eyewitness News about their ordeals, in the hope that more victims will come forward.One of the victims was raped in the back of a taxi in front of her ten-year-old son during a four-hour ordeal, while the other was forced at gunpoint to perform oral sex on her attacker.(Edited by Leeto M Khoza)