The party released its policy document on economic transformation on Sunday. JOHANNESBURG The African National Congress (ANC) says it wants inclusive growth in the economy, that only a growing economy can lead to economic transformation and that corruption is weakening government s efforts at proper economic change.The claims are contained in the party s policy document on economic transformation released on Sunday.The economic transformation document mentions the phrase 'inclusive growth' several times and doesn t refer to white monopoly capital at all.It also says economic transformation must have a mass character and that the economy cannot transform if it s not growing.The document says that the party won t be judged on its rhetoric but on whether its actions actually change the economy.That may be a coded rejection of some demands for immediate radical transformation.The paper also says that investment in the economy is important and that international investors will help the country.It says investor confidence will be boosted if South Africa is not downgraded by ratings agencies and if there is proper policy certainty.2020 POLICY GOALSThere were various proposals in the nine discussion documents released on Saturday.ANC head of policy Jeff Radebe said the economic transformation document is identified as one of the drivers of radical economic transformation. Returning the land to our people and supporting land reform. We need to provide greater certainty for codifying the constitutional requirement of just and equitable compensation for the acquisition of land. He said the legislature and governance document highlights the ANC s conduct in state institutions. The deployment of cadres to the state must be based on merit, recruiting public service managers with professional and technical capacity. And the organisational renewal discussion document-deals largely with the state of the party. This document recognises that the ANC is increasingly losing trust of the people as illustrated by the declining electoral performance and intense public criticism. The organisation must act urgently to restore its moral character. The document also proposes that the size of the NEC be reduced and that the ANC must limit the number of NEC members that serve in government.At the same time, the ANC s discussion document on education and health proposes that a new financial support model be finalised and fully implemented soon to ensure poor students who are academically capable have access to higher education.Radebe said, A new financial support model to ensure that poor academically capable working-class and middle-class students are supported to access higher education must be finalised and implemented by 2020. (Edited by Leeto M Khoza)