The chat between CEO Travis Kalanick and Fawzi Kamel goes from 'good to see you' to how Kalanick ruined it for the drivers. JOHANNESBURG Uber CEO Travis Kalanick has had an argument with one of his company s drivers added to his list of problems.On Tuesday Bloomberg published a video of Kalanick, also a co-founder of the company, arguing with Fawzi Kamel who tells him that rates have been cut and he has lost money. The incident took place in early February, on Super Bowl Sunday to be precise.Kamel picked Kalanick up, along with two female friends, in an Uber Black car and went on about his business even letting the sounds of Maroon 5 s Don t Wanna Know entertain him as his passengers engaged in small talk.It s when the ride came to an end that the CEO and the driver got to exchange some long-bottled-up words.WATCH: Uber CEO Kalanick argues with driver over falling fares After a pleasant exchange of 'good to see yous,' Kamel says I don t know if you remember me, but it s fine. And the conversation goes from talking about how Uber is beating its competitor to how Kalanick ruined it all for the drivers:Kamel: But people are not trusting you anymore. I lost $97 000 because of you. I'm bankrupt because of you. Yes, yes, yes. You keep changing every day. You keep changing every day.Kalanick: Hold on a second, what have I changed about Black? What have I changed?Kamel: You changed the whole business. You dropped the prices.Kalanick: On black?Kamel: Yes, you did.Kalanick begins to lose his temper and says: Bullshit.&quot;Kamel: We started with $20.Kalanick: Bullshit.Kamel: We started with $20. How much is the mile now, $2.75?Kalanick: You know what?Kamel: What?Kalanick: Some people don't like to take responsibility for their own shit. They blame everything in their life on somebody else. Good luck!Kamel: Good luck to you, but I know [you're not] going to go far.The door slams. Kamel drives away. Later, the Uber driver app prompts him to rate Kalanick, as he does all his riders. Kamel gives him one star.It wasn t long before the short-tempered CEO released a statement of apology. To say that I am ashamed is an extreme understatement. My job as your leader is to lead and that starts with behaving in a way that makes us all proud. That is not what I did, and it cannot be explained away. It s clear this video is a reflection of me - and the criticism we ve received is a stark reminder that I must fundamentally change as a leader and grow up. This is the first time I ve been willing to admit that I need leadership help and I intend to get it. The video is the latest in a series of challenges and embarrassments for the ride service. Last week, Alphabet Inc's self-driving vehicle unit Waymo sued Uber for allegedly stealing designs related to autonomous vehicles, a claim that Uber has denied.Uber also is investigating allegations of sexual harassment in its own organisation. Earlier this month, a female former engineer at Uber said in a widely read blog post that managers and human resources officers at the company had not punished her manager after she reported his unwanted sexual advances, and even threatened her with a poor performance review.Additional reporting by Reuters.