Cyril says the signing of the bill will stress government&#8217;s commitment to dealing with corruption &amp; money laundering. He adds recent attacks on foreigners were disappointing &amp; sad, but South African&#8217;s are not xenophobic. CAPE TOWN - The leader of government business Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa says the Financial Intelligence Centre Amendment (Fica) bill will boost South Africa s investment appeal.The bill was passed by the National Assembly on Wednesday after it was sent back to Parliament by President Jacob Zuma.Ramaphosa says the signing of the bill will stress government s commitment to dealing with corruption and money laundering. Only the president can ascend to bills in terms of one of his constitutional duties and indeed your urging him to sign the bill will be some of the considerations that he keeps in mind that the bill must be signed. The Deputy President says the Fica bill will make South Africa a blue chip investor destination.He says once law, it will improve South Africa's stature in the international investment community and show South Africa is serious about rooting out money laundering and corruption.Ramaphosa says the Fica bill will signal to global investors South Africa is an equal competitor with other countries they invest in. On many things that we do we got to be able to do what is reasonable and proper that other countries do. Ramaphosa says he has no knowledge of claims that the Progressive Professional Forum led by Jimmy Manyi allegedly received money to block the passing of the Fica bill. I have no knowledge of that, I have no knowledge of the doings of Mr Jimmy Manyi funding whoever or being funded by whoever. Meanwhile, the African National Congress ANC says the amended Fica bill will be crucial in tackling not only money laundering, but also the financing of terrorism.Opposition parties slammed Zuma for wasting Parliament s time and have alleged there were ulterior motives for causing the delay.The amended bill now has tighter provisions relating to warrantless searches.Inspectors will require internal authorisation before such a search is carried out.Zuma will now consider for a second time whether or not to sign the bill into law. 'SOUTH AFRICANS ARE NOT XENOPHOBIC'Ramaphosa has described the recent attacks against foreigners as 'disappointing and sad' but says he doesn't believe South African s are xenophobic.He says South Africa is a home for all people who live here. We are a people who are not xenophobic; we don t hate foreigners and in fact we have opened our arms forever to people from other countries - just like they opened their arms to us when we were pushed into exile. (Edited by Winnie Theletsane)