Taxi drivers are protesting against cab hailing service Uber but officials say they didn't grant permission for the demonstration. Editor's note: The blockade has since ended and the highways have reopened. For an updated story click here.JOHANNESBURG Protesting meter taxi drivers travelling from the R21 arrived at OR Tambo International Airport on Friday morning, and reportedly blockaded entrances into and out of the airport.The protest was organised by the Gauteng Meter Taxi Association.Taxi drivers were protesting the presence of cab hailing service Uber in the country but officials say they didn't grant permission for the demonstration.They say they tried all avenues for authorities to deal with their grievances but were left with no choice but to take their demonstration to the airport.Spokesperson Reuben Mzayiya says, We ve tried all avenues in terms of legality but if you re writing a letter to the government, they take it as a love letter. They don t even have the audacity to acknowledge what you re doing. @EWNTraffic #JHBTraffic R24 completely blocked! People walking to airport - bags &amp; all! @jaca_traffic @EMM_Call_Centre pic.twitter.com/kStZxBOqJCMeanwhile, acting National Police Commissioner Khomotso Phahlane says the protest is illegal and officers are doing their best to ensure blockades on major routes are cleared.Phahlane says while police knew about the protest they did not anticipate the chaos.He adds that even if the demonstration did not involve the airport which is a national key point police would have still acted. There s an illegal activity which is taking place, this protest is an illegal one. It s an approved protest because it is required that from anyone who would want to stage a protest to apply to the authorities. LISTEN: Acting police chief Khomotso Phahlane explains what officials knew about the blockade before it happened.There are heavy traffic delays this morning with Gauteng metered taxi drivers blocking parts of the R24 highway in both directions and affecting those bound for various destinations including OR Tambo International Airport.Taxi drivers have parked their vehicles near the Barbara Road off-ramp, protesting against cab hailing service Uber.A meter taxi driver who has joined the protest Sekwala Mashikinya says Uber is not suitable for South Africa. We need to get clarity. Today we re prepared to die here. The police are usually shooting people who are demonstrating for their rights. So they must kill us for our own rights. In Kempton Park traffic is at a standstill on the R21 South approaching Pomona Road #MeterTaxiProtest #JHBTraffic pic.twitter.com/G51OFvBsdoMeanwhile, motorists are complaining of heavy traffic delays, with some complaining that they have missed their flights as a result of the protest.A man says he s been stuck on the highway since just after 5am and has missed his flight. It seems like the Ekurhuleni Metro Police are on scene, trying to negotiate but nothing is happening. Motorists are also frustrated they started moving barricades on the highway. One man says police and metro police should have prevented the chaos. We ve got intelligence in this country. It s not only three metered taxis that are blocking the roads, there s quite a number of them. Why didn t our intelligence of the government pick up that there will be something like this and then they deploy the security services? @EWNTraffic ppl going through holes in the fence to get off the R24... I&#39;ve missed my flight already... next one too late to make my event pic.twitter.com/up1kYmcFxTThank goodness I have a tent and sleeping bag in my boot #taxistrike #uber @947 @EWNTraffic pic.twitter.com/jjkSu1ktslAirport Company South Africa s Refentse Shinners says all affected passengers can accommodated by negotiating with airlines to see how best to deal with the situation. There will be some passengers who may have arrived a bit earlier for their flights, to put those on earlier flights and then those who have missed their flights on later flights. Shinners says they still have to negotiation because it will affect a lot of logistics behind the scene as well.