This week the Western Cape provincial government approved the sale of the Tafelberg property in Sea Point to private developers, with calls from the public for the property to be developed into low-income housing falling, once again, on deaf ears.Gentrification rears its ugly head again.The City of Cape Town has not shied away from this trendy term. In fact, in the South African conversation of changing landscapes, it often seems that Cape Town is the poster child for the germy word, with areas like Woodstock, Saltriver and even Bokaap sitting top of mind.Gentrification means a lot of things. The word has its roots in Rome but a lot of countries have set their own parameters for definition. Some countries politicise its meaning, while others try and steer away from that.In South Africa, the phenomenon is one that is aligned with race, segregation and colonialism. You cannot throw a stone in this city without hitting someone who has previously been displaced by the Group Areas Act of the apartheid regime. The ongoing evictions of the working class in cities and suburbs that border the cities such as Sea Point are no different.Gentrification is also the movement and displacement of people. If a certain class of person moves into a once low-income neighbourhood, a lesser class must move out. The area then becomes up-scaled. Cool coffee shops start popping up, expensive organic steak restaurants occupy more than one corner and the poor have no option but to move out.Yes, resources may increase, healthcare gets better, access to services improves, and this is great, but the poor are not the lucky ones who will benefit from this, when they are in fact the ones who need to benefit from it the most. Why? Because, property prices rise, rent goes up and it becomes impossible for lower-income citizens to live there.There is, of course, an organic type of gentrification. For example: A cool artist lives in a run-down area and becomes an agent of change, inspiring middle-class settlers to move to the area, where they open small businesses. This creates jobs, makes things safer. Stores get stocked with fresh vegetables, the working class and middle class can co-exist quite nicely together and so they should. Lives are lived here and the working class which shapes a space deserve to live in that same space as well.This organic gentrification is, of course, not without harm or fault, but the occurrence becomes a disease when city governments collaborate with the private sector. This is when the change becomes even more destructive and debilitating.Deals are made, conversations happen and the low-income households who are most affected by these decisions made behind these closed doors are none the wiser. It s manipulative. It forces transformation and it happens quickly. It is, not to mince words, the strategic displacement of communities who once occupied thriving and dynamic cities and the replacement of those cities with sanitised, capitalised spaces and a systemic remaking of a better class of citizen.In this way, gentrification is just a trendy term for what is really a state-sponsored segregation. And that s exactly what we should call it. It is a steroid-fuelled invasion that tears through our city s streets and destroys the fabric of society s soul.Haji Mohamed Dawjee is a commentator on gender equality, sexuality, culture, race relations and feminism as well as ethics in the South African media environment.