Bathabile Dlamini insists that grant recipients will receive their money with no interruptions. JOHANNESBURG - Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini has told Members of Parliament (MPs) that there is no crisis around the payment of grants for next month.Dlamini was speaking during a parliamentary debate on Tuesday over the grants payment saga and steps taken to deal with the matter. Social grants will be paid on 1 April. I would like to reiterate the assurance of the President of the Republic of South Africa Jacob Zuma that there is no crisis at Sassa. She insists that grant beneficiaries will receive their money with no interruptions. We have, without fail, been paying the right grant to the right person, at the right time and place always since Sassa s establishment 10 years ago. We will continue doing so without fail, come 1 April this year and beyond. Swapping between isiZulu and English, she also thanked Parliament for giving her the opportunity to speak and accused her critics of deepening the crisis. In the process allay fears of social grant beneficiaries and ordinary South Africans who have been confused by the prophets of doom and those who want t portray themselves as moral saviours as well as those deepen this crisis. WATCH LIVE: Parliament debates social grants debacle11 MINUTES LATE - DLAMINI &amp; SASSA BOSS FILE AFFIDAVITS TO CONCOURTThe Social Development minister and Sassa filed affidavits in the Constitutional Court on Tuesday afternoon to explain why they didn't comply with Monday s court order. Last week, Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogeong asked Dlamini and Sassa to clarify certain points about the current invalid CPS contract, which is due to expire at the end of March.They were due to file papers by 4pm on Monday but only did so late at night.On Tuesday, Mogoeng ordered the minister and Sassa to file affidavits by 3pm to explain their delay.Dlamini and Sassa missed another crucial deadline today - this time by 11 minutes.Lawyers representing the minister and Sassa came rushing through to the Constitutional Court offices after 3pm but successfully filed the affidavits.Details explaining why they didn t comply with the court order have not yet been made available, but the minister s lawyer had explained that they were meeting with the ministerial task team late Monday afternoon.Sassa wants to implement a new interim contract with CPS to ensure social grants are paid come 1 April.It wants the court to continue with its oversight role and for the Public Protector and Auditor General to monitor the payment process.The matter will be heard in court on Wednesday. READ: Minister Dlamini's affidavit to Constitutional Court Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini's affidavit to Constitutional Court by Primedia Broadcasting on Scribd(Edited by Winnie Theletsane)