Thokozani Magwaza says he was puzzled when he saw media reports suggesting he had been suspended from the agency. JOHANNESBURG South Africa Social Security Agency (Sassa) CEO Thokozani Magwaza says he was puzzled when he saw media reports suggesting he had been suspended from the agency.Magwaza is expected to return to work on Monday after two weeks of sick leave on the advice of his doctor.He was admitted to hospital for stress and high blood pressure amid claims that he was suspended by Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini for working on a deal with the Post Office for the distribution of grants.As the current contract with Cash Paymaster Services (CPS) comes to end this month, it remains unclear when a new deal will be finalised.Magwaza is expected to return to work today and relieve interim CEO Thamo Mzobe.Sassa's Paseka Letsatsi has dismissed claims that Mzobe was replaced to finalise the Sassa deal with CPS. It s how we operate when someone is on sick leave. Someone needs to ensure that the wheels of government keep on moving. So there is nothing new on the matter. We must not give those allegations any credit. Magwaza says as far as he knows he has not been suspended. There s a new acting CEO. There might have been something discussed or the letter is waiting for me when I get back, but I doubt it will be there. I have been talking to the special advisor and minister, they don t know about it. The minister has until 4pm today to explain how the grants will be distributed when she files papers at the Constitutional Court.While CPS has confirmed that it reached an agreement with Sassa s lawyers on the grant distribution tender, nothing has been signed and it seems the Post Office still remains an option.In 2014 the Constitutional Court ruled that the current contract between CPS and Sassa was unconstitutional and cannot be renewed but could run until the end of this month.In court papers filed by Sassa, six options are listed for grant distribution come 1 April, including CPS, the Post Office and the banks.CPS CONFIDENTLast week CPS said it was confident that its contract with Sassa would be renewed.CPS CEO Serge Belamant said they were waiting on Sassa to conclude with its processes. We ll be available as soon as they re ready. We ll get together and finalise it. President Jacob Zuma has meanwhile reassured beneficiaries that grants will be paid next month, urging South Africans to cool down .(Edited by Shimoney Regter)