CPS&#8217;s Serge Belamant admits it will be increasing the rate it charges Sassa per beneficiary, but not to R25. JOHANNESBURG As the deal to secure a distributor for social grants waits to be signed, Cash Paymaster Services (CPS) says there is no truth to reports that it will be charging South African Social Security Agency (Sassa) a rate of R25 per person in the new agreement.On Monday, CPS met with lawyers to finalise conditions of the deal.It s now up to Sassa to sign the agreement.In 2014, the Constitutional Court ruled the current contract was invalid and couldn t be renewed after it expires on 31 March. The confusion has sparked concerns around whether 17 million South Africans will receive their social grants.CPS s Serge Belamant admits it will increase the R16.44 rate it currently charges Sassa per beneficiary. We discussed how we calculated an adjustment, so for the last five years we ve had no increases whatsoever. We ve had to go in with some increases for the next two years and I think they were accepted by Sassa and [the Social Development Department] as being reasonable. He says while he cannot confirm the new rate CPS will charge, it is nowhere near the reported R25 per beneficiary.Belamant says Sassa has verbally agreed to the terms of the contract including the rate per person but it is yet to sign on the dotted line for CPS to continue as the primary paymaster.Earlier Belamant said as far as he knew, the only thing preventing a deal from being finalised between his firm and Sassa was a legal agreement signed by both parties. It takes them a little bit of time to do this and then typically, you ve got to go through the agreement term by term to ensure that the attorney has not tried to be too smart and maybe written the terms in a way that it was never intended. DLAMINI HAS COMMITTED CRIMEMeanwhile, the Forum for Service Delivery says by failing to finalise a contract between the Sassa and CPS, Minister Bathabile Dlamini has committed a crime against humanity.On Sunday, Minister Dlamini refused to answer questions on the crisis.The forum s Mbahare Kekena says Dlamini should be arrested if grants are not paid out in April. It s time for our country to take a good stance on our leaders because they are far from the community and it s all about them. We re saying it s actually a crime against humanity and she must be dealt with harshly so. WARM WELCOME FOR DLAMINI IN CTDespite growing calls for Dlamini to be fired over the grants crisis, she received a warm welcome from delegates at a social security briefing in Cape Town on Monday.Grant beneficiaries waited almost two hours for Dlamini to arrive, but they didn t mind and appeared happy to see her.Dlamini again assured that grants would be paid next month, but she didn't provide details of a new agreement. In the view of our advisers, we have to apologise to the nation. She blamed the media for the confusion over grant payments, saying only black journalists understood the importance of social grants to their families.(Edited by Leeto M Khoza)