Agent Gino Laureyssen says he&#8217;s frustrated by the lack of response from South African football&#8217;s governing body. CAPE TOWN - Cameroon and African Nations Cup winning coach Hugo Broos has not been contacted since applying for the vacant Bafana Bafana head coach post, according to agent Gino Laureyssen who put his name forward to Safa.The 64-year-old won the 2017 Nations Cup with an unfancied Cameroon side in his first international coaching role.Lauryssen says he has been seeking clarity from Safa regarding Broos s application and has grown frustrated by the lack of response from South African football s governing body. It s almost four weeks since we sent Hugo s application and I tried to call let s say 55 times to see if they received the application of Mr Broos. Nobody is giving me an answer, so I don t know how those people (Safa) are organising South Africa. It s a little bit like the results of the national team I think. I think it s quite disrespectful to the guy who just won the African Cup of Nations, who is interested to serve your country at reasonable conditions. Lauryssen says Broos s stock has risen since winning the African showpiece earlier this year and believes South Africa would be a great fit for the Belgian. We have a lot of possibilities, Mr Broos is asked by almost all countries in Africa and also abroad but South Africa is a wonderful country, it has a lot of good players and he is very eager to do it. We were so motivated two or three weeks ago, but now nothing is happening and it is understandable that the motivation goes down. He is ready to go in another task, where he can build a new team, where he can play with young players, he can build a team with players who want to play for their country. Meanwhile, another shortlisted name is Herve Renard and his representative Yousseff Haijoub confirmed that Safa had made no contact with him and that he s happy in his current role with Morocco, with his objective of qualifying them for the 2018 World Cup in Russia.However, Renard was spotted in Lusaka at the same time as Safa president Danny Jordaan who is attending the Afcon under-20 competition.Meanwhile former Bafana Bafana coach Carlos Queiroz, who has also been shortlisted, told EWN Sport in a text message that returning to his old post might not be possible. I am not free and without a mutual agreement it is not possible to cancel my contract (with Iran). Maybe in the near future (the opportunity will present itself) if Safa still trusts my services. A Safa representative told EWN Sport that by the end of the week an announcement could be made. The national team is expected to announce the squad for upcoming international friendlies against Angola and Guinea-Bissau on 25 and 28 March respectively on Thursday.