
                                            Pravin Gordhan and Mcebisi Jonas have called on KPMG to be honest and transparent in its dealings, especially in South Africa.

                                         JOHANNESBURG - Former Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan and his deputy Mcebisi Jonas have condemned the manner in which KPMG has validated state capture and corruption in the country. They met with the firm's international chairperson and newly appointed South African CEO on Thursday. Numerous senior South African officials have resigned following the firm’s withdrawal of its Sars report on the so-called intelligence unit. Gordhan and Jonas say despite meeting with KPMG officials, they reserve their legal rights against the firm. The pair says they strongly disapprove of the manner in which the firm has been involved in validating state capture and corruption by the Gupta family and the revenue service. Two South African businesses have cut ties with the firm as it faces a storm of allegations of working with Gupta owned firms. They have called on KPMG, to be honest and transparent in its dealings, especially in South Africa. SARS REPORT Gordhan and Jonas have insisted on a full and proper disclosure from KPMG on the role of various parties in state capture. The Mail & Guardian is reporting on Friday morning that the author of the controversial Sars report Johannes van der Walt was also part of a probe into the kickback scandal that German firm SAP was allegedly involved in with the Guptas. KPMG has strongly criticised the way the Sars report into the so-called intelligence unit was compiled and withdrew the findings and recommendations last week, but it implicated Gordhan who was Sars commissioner at the time and several other employees. The Mail & Guardian says Van der Walt has also apparently been involved in another scandal involving the Guptas and has links going back to the Schabir Shaik trial where it emerged that he misrepresented some information contained in his audit report. Van der Walt says the speculation is wrong. Meanwhile, KPMG's new CEO Nhlamu Dlomu says they're working hard to restore trust after the recent revelations about the firm's conduct. “We have owned up to our mistake and we need to continue owning up." It's unclear exactly what Gordhan and Jonas discussed with the international chairman on Thursday but they say the manner in which KPMG has validated state capture and corruption in the country is a major concern. (Edited by Winnie Theletsane)