
                                            The Merseyside club suffered a 2-0 defeat to Leicester in Tuesday’s League Cup clash.
                                         BENGALURU - Liverpool manager Juergen Klopp wants his side to convert their dominance of possession into goals as they prepare for a return trip to Leicester City in the Premier League on Saturday. The Merseyside club suffered a 2-0 defeat to Leicester in Tuesday’s League Cup clash despite dominating the play with 70% possession and 21 attempts on goal. “We are still fluent and still creative but we don’t score and that’s the problem,” Klopp told a news conference on Thursday. “I need to help the players to stay positive. “Our opponents struggle to defend us. We play really well but don’t score often enough so far. “But it was too easy for them (Leicester) to make an impact in the game with one situation. We need to be more concentrated in these situations and we have to be more clinical.” Following last weekend’s 1-1 draw against Burnley, Liverpool slipped to eighth in the standings but are still only five points behind early leaders Manchester City and Manchester United. Only five games into the league campaign, the manager believes it’s too early to write them off in the title race.“It sounds like we have nil points and are the worst team in the league,” Klopp added. “But you can make it more serious than it is or you can take it like it is. Yes, we have still work to do. If we had 15 points it would still be the same, it would only feel different.” Klopp also defended new-signing Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain, who struggled during his first Liverpool start at Leicester. “He had a few good situations and a few unlucky situations - and a little problem with his calf. He did really well in some moments and he is trying to adapt to the style of play,” said Klopp. “He didn’t make the best game in his life so people ask but I’m not in doubt.” Klopp confirmed centre-back Dejan Lovren is a doubt ahead of the weekend after missing Liverpool’s last two games with a back issue.