“Nobody is going to say he’s in a better place,” says a meme on social media marking Hugh Hefner’s death. There are titters about how the sales of Viagra have dropped overnight. (Hefner at 91 was reportedly deaf at the time of his death, a side effect linked with too much popping of the little blue helper). The man who put the ‘tit’ into titillation, the dude who (according to a now famous tweet by a Colombian former soccer player) “taught a generation to read magazines with one hand”, is, finally, stiff for all time. (Just another joke going around.) Of course, this ribald response to what should be a sombre occasion is testimony to Hefner’s carefully constructed image as a louche hedonist, an urbane Lothario, and, no matter how the years have faded his silk robes, a virile, generous lover. He carefully carved his image, including agreeing to participate in reality show The Girls Next Door, to perpetuate a fantasy: Men should want to be him. And women? Well. Women would want to be with him, hanging on his arm, smiling broadly at the cameras.  But wait, there’s more.  Hefner was not just content to play a sexual benefactor role for the viewing pleasure of an admiring mainly masculine audience. He wanted women to collude in this self-created vision. He wanted to be seen as a progressive purveyor of female liberation. “Playboy,” he insisted, “treats women as sexual beings, not as sexual objects.” He once told media he was, “an effective force in the cause of female emancipation” and - hold onto your suspenders now - that “bunnies were the pre-feminist feminists”. The same man who kicked off his first Playboy issue by telling women readers to “get back to your Ladies’ Home Companion” had morphed himself into a sexual messiah who protested he was just helping women “enjoy their natural sexuality as much as men”. And he said all this without choking on his pipe. Now either the man - he was born in 1926, for heaven’s sake - had an intellectually simplistic, pre-suffragette idea of what it means to be sexually liberated, or, Hef, despite some forays into issues like gay rights and access to birth control was, first and foremost, a man who knew how to manipulate and promote his brand.  Whatever the reasons, he managed to equate any criticism of objectifying women’s bodies into an ‘anti-sex’ philosophy: sex-negative we call it today. And then he would label you with the ‘f’ word - a (quelle horreur) feminist. “Our natural enemy,” as he once said. For all his legitimising of sexual pleasure in a repressed era, rather than promote the rich, powerful force of women’s sexuality, or encouraging us to be assertive, discerning sexual beings, (not that we needed him to do it, it’s just an idea he could have pursued), he stopped at coaxing us to drop our bra and broeks. And only for the pleasure of being looked at.  Spot the difference. He insisted the pin-up girls were ‘girls next door’ - available, naked, accessible, smiling, never demanding, or selective and certainly not having sexual needs and fantasies of their own.  Iconic feminist Gloria Steinem went undercover at Hefner's New York club as a bunny and reported back in a magazine expose. Women working there, she concluded were treated as if ‘on a meat hook’. “It was horrible. There was nothing fun about it. High heels and a costume so tight it would give a man a cleavage.” Well, that was the deal, you may well say. They could hardly rock up in Birkenstocks.  But still, far from a generous sugar daddy or new-age sex crusader, Steinem described a man who made the girls pay for the cleaning of their bunny costumes, their false eyelashes (mandatory, obvs) and thought nothing of helping himself to a percentage of their tips.  But if over the years, Hefner began to believe that girls with names like Kendra, Holly and Crystal were indeed sexually emancipated by trips to the hairdresser to remain ash-blonde, the all-expenses-paid plastic surgery and twice-weekly group sex sessions where the girls were expected to feel each other up and look as if they liked it, he was living in a fool’s mansion.  Holly Madison in her book Down the Rabbit Hole: Curious Adventures and Cautionary Tales of a Former Playboy Bunny (2015) says on finding herself broke, and about to be evicted, ended up having sex with Hefner after a night on the town - as they were all ‘expected’ to do. She was advised to ‘fake the f*ck’ by one of the girls, who, she says, pretended to engage in some lesbian rumpy pumpy while really gossiping under the cover of the music and darkness. She says they all seemed ‘to dread the sex’.  If that’s sexual freedom, dress me up in a twin-set and pearls and send me back to 1950.  It doesn’t get better. The Playboy girls were treated as errant teenagers, writes Madison. They had 9pm curfews, and were not expected to work or have any male callers. They were to be available for group sex twice a week, and go clubbing a couple of times a week though not dance anywhere where Hefner could not see them.  Years earlier, former playmate Jill Ann Spaulding in her book Jill Ann: Upstairs describes sex with Hefner like this: (Warning: Male sexual fantasy ahead). “When it first gets started his main girlfriend gives him oral sex, then she has sex with him. She’s the first to go because that’s the safest for her. No protection and no testing. He doesn’t care. Hef just lies there with his Viagra erection. It’s just a fake erection, and each girl gets on top of him for two minutes while the girls in the background try to keep him excited. They’ll yell things like, ‘Fck her daddy, fck her daddy!’.” Izabella St James, another former playmate, who wrote Bunny Tales in 2009, destroyed the illusion further by describing the mansion as smelling like urine from Hefner’s incontinent dog. But that’s another tail.  In this self-constructed fantasy world, nothing is at it seems. Neither is the sexual power of the women involved. They have as much as they are allowed to have. They are expected to conform, to do their master’s bidding. No one – not Hefner or any of his ‘bunnies’ or ‘playmates’ - talk about passion, or desire. They are sanitised - if busty - pleasers of men.  They service him to maintain their lifestyle. And that is seen as the acceptable mean, the norm.  And let’s admit it, using a man for his money, is not sexually liberating. It’s just the ingredients of the oldest profession. (I am not judging - I include many northern suburbs wives here.)  Of course, this is on the micro scale. But the personal is always political.  If taking off your clothes - which of course, women do for a myriad reasons - is how you’re going to earn your living, you are always on the back foot. Your power is only as strong as how you are perceived. While Dolly Parton, Charlize Theron and Madonna posed for Playboy, the difference is the choice of an economically liberated woman having fun with nudity, on their terms, rather than using it for an angle. Subjugation is only sexy when it’s a consensual experience. Using your nakedness for gain is not sexual liberation.  Sexual liberation is not about being morphed by a ‘liberator’ into a cute bunny. If you’re dressed up as a bunny, you’re basically bunny chow.  Sexual freedom is about saying yes, but it’s also about saying no.  There may be a hundred reasons women strip off for mass consumption or peroxide their hair to pork an octogenarian (there was a 60-year age gap between Hefner and Wife No 3 Crystal Harris), but labelling it ‘sexual freedom’ is a misnomer. Perhaps they were choosing a lifestyle, but let’s not call it sexual empowerment. They traded that empowerment, that freedom, for a lifestyle, for introductions to powerful people Yes, it was a transaction. But a transaction where someone else holds the purse strings is not equitable. Freedom - sexual or otherwise - is about being able to say “yes, I choose you” wholeheartedly as well as “no, Hef, not tonight, f*ck off home and don’t let the door slam you on your pipe cleaner on the way out”. As Julia Hartley-Brewer, an English radio host put it in The Sun, “The only thing Hefner liberated was the zip on his trousers”.