Cosatu’s Dumisani Dakile says all preparations have been made ahead of Wednesday’s demonstration. JOHANNESBURG - The Congress of South African Trade Unions (Cosatu)  says its march on Wednesday is aimed at defending the interests of workers in the face of widespread looting and corruption. The federation has given an update on preparations ahead of the mass demonstration along with the SACP and Cosatu. Cosatu’s Dumisani Dakile says all preparations have been made ahead of Wednesday’s demonstration. “We’re more than ready, transport arrangement in terms of the operation is all systems go, the recipients are all waiting for us.” At the same time, ANC provincial secretary Hope Papo says the strike is not in defiance of the national leadership. “There’s no contradiction. Cosatu is a trade union; we’re not leading, we’re supporting and we haven’t organised the strike because they had to go to Nedlac and through Section 77. But we don’t see any contradiction because the ANC anyway has taken a decision on those matters of all forms of state capture.” 'ISSUES RAISED ARE NOT NEW' Cosatu in KwaZulu-Natal says its disturbed by attempts to politicise its national strike on state capture insisting the mass protest has nothing to do with factional battles. Cosatu's President Sdumo Dlamini will be leading Wednesday's demonstration in the Durban CBD. Provincial secretary Edwin Mkhize says the issues being raised by the federation are not new and shouldn't be used as a political football. “Everyone knows that Cosatu has been fighting against labour brokers, we’ve always been calling for their banning and we’re taking that struggle to the next level now. Then you find people want to misinterpret it for whatever political reasons, and I think that is wrong.” About 100,000 people are expected to protest nationwide. Meanwhile, the National Joint Operational and Intelligence Structure (NATJOINTS) has assured South Africans that law enforcement will be deployed during Wednesday's nationwide demonstration against state capture. NATJOINTS says while citizens have the right to protest, no acts of criminality will be tolerated. WATCH: Cosatu briefing on state capture mass action 