
                                            Thousands of people took to the streets in a national strike, demanding action be taken against graft and other issues facing workers.
                                         JOHANNESBURG/DURBAN - Marchers around the country are demanding a comprehensive probe into state capture and are calling on South Africans to ramp up the fight against corruption at both public and private levels. Thousands of people took to the streets in a national strike on Wednesday, demanding action be taken against graft and other issues facing workers. In Gauteng, Premier David Makhura says South Africa should follow Brazil's example and set up prisons for corrupt politicians and those who try to capture the state. Members of Cosatu, the SACP and the ANC in Gauteng marched to the City of Johannesburg’s office, banks, the Chamber of Mines and the premier's doorstep. It’s been a peaceful march in the CBD but many attending were clearly angered by private and public sector corruption. Premier Makhura said the Gauteng government is trying to remain corruption-free. He says he was recently in Brazil and learned of prisons for corrupt politicians. The Premier believes South Africa would benefit from a similar setup. “Those who want to capture our officials, our politicians also must go into that prison.” Marchers have dispersed from the CBD, with many promising to continue the call for an end to graft.    ‘LOOK BEYOND THE GUPTAS’ Cosatu president Sdumo Dlamini has called on workers not to allow themselves to be divided by big business or government and must continue calling for an end to corruption. Dlamini addressed thousands of workers outside the Durban City Hall on Wednesday afternoon. The Cosatu President told supporters that any inquiry into state capture should also look beyond the Gupta family's influence. “1994 is the deadline so that we don’t miss anything. The Guptas, yes [they are involved] but there has been even bigger capturers who have captured the state many years ago.” He also hit out at his predecessor Zwelinzima Vavi, blaming him for the current state of the alliance. KZN Premier Willies Mchunu  was expected to receive the memorandum but a provincial government official arrived instead. STATE CAPTURE PROBE Dlamini has called for an urgent inquiry to investigate state capture going back to 1994. Dlamini also called for the complete banning of labour brokers while he addressed thousands of marchers outside the Durban City Hall. Dlamini said this is the first in a series of demonstrations. “The message that was intended to be passed through has been communicated that we’re tired of state capture and corruption. We want decent forms of employment, we want labour brokers to be scrapped and we want an investigation on state capture instituted by the President of the republic.”     ‘ERADICATE CORRUPTION FROM GOVT’ Western Cape ANC delegates on Wednesday joined Cosatu's march in the Cape Town CBD, stressing the need to eradicate corruption from government. Officials say around 2,500 supporters joined the anti-corruption demonstration. They marched to the Passenger Rail Agency of SA (Prasa), the provincial legislature and Parliament. There were loud cheers from supporters dressed in ANC gear, as they joined the start of the march at Keizersgracht.ANC provincial secretary Faiez Jacobs highlighted the importance of addressing corruption. “It affects public opportunities to create more jobs, decent wages for our workers and access to public health and transport.” The march proceeded to Prasa’s head office where Cosatu’s Tony Ehrenreich highlighted the need to fix the city' s dysfunctional railway system. “What we want to see is a public transport system that ensures that our people travel to and from work safely.” The rail network has been constantly plagued by disruptions due to cable theft and vandalism, resulting in ongoing delays on all major routes. (Edited by Winnie Theletsane)