
                                            Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma says the media has a responsibility to serve the country.
                                         JOHANNESBURG - African National Congress presidential hopeful Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma says while the media should keep politicians on their toes, it has an obligation to report truthfully. The media has been critcised for backing different factions in the governing party's leadership race and sometimes being used in fighting political battles. Dlamini-Zuma was speaking at an ANC Cadre's Forum in Empangeni in KwaZulu-Natal on Monday afternoon. She says the media has a responsibility to serve the country. “The media must keep us on our toes. We must know when the media criticise us, we must sit up and think because they tell the truth. But if the media says anything and everything, you don’t care about it and you don’t even read what they say.” The presidential hopeful says while members of the party have to remain disciplined, they should not follow blindly when matters in the organisation are not going well. Last week, Dlamini-Zuma was sworn in as a Member of Parliament replacing former MP Pule Mabe. She says the ANC has always been a place for debate but a united front is important. “Discipline means within the structures of the ANC, we must debate issues frankly, openly and robustly. Then we say what we agreed on.” WATCH: Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma addresses ANC Cadres Forum  FREE EDUCATION Dlamini-Zuma has expressed her support for free higher education, saying no student should be deprived of an education because of poverty. Two weeks ago, reports emerged claiming that Dlamini-Zuma will take the place of Higher Education Minister Blade Nzimande in a looming Cabinet reshuffle. She has made her views on free higher education clear. “The youth must be patriotic because if the youth is not patriotic, who is going to be? As black people were not given the opportunities to develop those talents and that’s why the youth, and I agree with them, is fighting for those prevented from getting an education because they don’t have money.”