
                                            Ntshalintshali has once again called for the removal of Jacob Zuma and has also described Cyril Ramaphosa as an ideal president.
                                         JOHANNESBURG - Congress of South African Trade Unions  (Cosatu) general secretary Bheki Ntshalintshali  has told marchers in the Johannesburg CBD that corruption is behind many of the political killings plaguing the country.  As the federations nationwide strike continued, thousands of demonstrators were at Premier David Makhura’s offices to hand over their third memorandum of the day.  Ntshalintshali has once again called for the removal of President Jacob Zuma and has described Cyril Ramaphosa  as an ideal president. He says politics has become increasingly dangerous, and in some cases, deadly. “When the killing is happening in KZN, our movement calls it a political killing. No comrades, it is a corruption killing. They kill those who stand firm against corruption.” Marchers who’ve filled the streets of the Johannesburg’s CBD were cheering and singing songs in support of Ramaphosa with some waving placards bearing his face. Makhura received the memorandum.  'GP IS NOT CAPTURED' Makhura has told thousands of marchers that while state capture has crept into national politics, the Gauteng government and himself personally have not been captured. “Gauteng province is not captured. It’s not that they are not trying, it’s not that they have not tried. We refused to be captured, we refused to use public resources or to channel these resources that are meant to be for private development.” Marchers were at their last stop on the Johannesburg leg of the Cosatu national march. They would hand over their final memorandum of demands at the Chamber of Mines.  VOTE RAMAPHOSA Ntshalintshali urged workers leaving Wednesday’s march to go back to their branches and lobby for Ramaphosa to lead the fight against corruption. Ntshalintshali urged marchers to support Ramaphosa, describing him as an ideal president who’s earned the title. Speaking in isiZulu, Ntshalintshali said both former president’s Nelson Mandela and Thabo Mbeki let their deputies succeed them and he’s questioning why Zuma doesn’t do the same. Marchers repeatedly chanted Zuma must go.   (Edited by Zinhle Nkosi)