
                                            The Cosatu president says it’s no secret who the federation is backing in the African National Congress’s succession race.
                                         JOHANNESBURG - Congress of South African Trade Unions (Cosatu) President Sdumo Dlamini says the chants in support of Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa could not have been predicted and it’s no secret who the federation is backing in the African National Congress (ANC)’s succession race. Dlamini was speaking after Wednesday’s nationwide demonstrations against state capture. Thousands of Cosatu affiliates took to the streets calling for the complete banning of labour brokers and an urgent commission of inquiry into state capture.  Dlamini says the main message of the march was sent out despite the singing of campaign songs. “Let’s discuss and agree that what dominated this march were the issues of the workers, which we’ve advanced. We were not going to do anything about those who were singing.” Meanwhile, Cosatu marchers in Durban sang songs in support of Ramaphosa with many wearing T-shirts that read 'CR17' as they march through the CBD. This is despite Dlamini dismissing claims that the demonstration is a proxy battle ahead of the ANC’s elective conference.  ‘MARCHES AGAINST STATE CAPTURE, NOT ANC’ The South African Communist Party’s (SACP) Blade Nzimande said Wednesday's anti-state capture marches were not against the African National Congress and government but rather against what was wrong in the movement and state. Nzimande said they stood in solidarity with workers in the belief that monopoly capital must end, but said the wealthy Gupta family’s money was also not an alternative. He lashed out at formerly Gupta owned media, which has accused marchers of demonstrating against their own party.   ‘SA IS REALLY LEADERLESS’ Last week, Cosatu called on the ANC's national executive committee (NEC) to discuss the possible reinstatement of criminal charges against President Jacob Zuma. Cosatu's Sizwe Pamla said the special NEC must take decisions that would preserve the unity of ANC and give the party a fresh start. He added the possibility that corruption charges may be reinstated against the president must be discussed. Cosatu has in the past called on Zuma to step down and banned him from all its events. Additional reporting by Mia Lindeque and Clement Manyathela. (Edited by Zamangwane Shange)