He has taken to Instagram to rally his followers together in a bid to get them to donate to charitable organisations. LONDON - Ryan Reynolds has urged his fans to help those affected by Hurricane Harvey and Hurricane Irma.The Deadpool star has taken to Instagram to rally his followers together in a bid to get them to donate to charitable organisations that are working to rebuild the lives of those affected by the two natural disasters that have hit Texas and Florida this month.Taking to his social media accounts on Saturday, Reynolds posted a picture of himself in his Deadpool costume with a t-shirt over the top reading &quot;Hope. Heal. Rebuild&quot;, and told fans how they could help the cause. Let s help those affected by Hurricane Harvey and Hurricane Irma. Support the incredible ground efforts of Americares emergency response teams with this snazzy t-shirt. Get one by clicking link in my bio. OR... Skip the fucking t-shirts altogether! Donate directly at Americares.org or use CharityNavigator.org to find the charity of your choice.A post shared by Ryan Reynolds (@vancityreynolds) on Sep 9, 2017 at 7:59am PDTThe 40-year-old actor isn't the only star to get involved with the relief effort either, as celebrities such as Leonardo Di Caprio, Taylor Swift, Jimmy Kimmel, Rita Ora, Kevin Hart, Justin Bieber, the Kardashians, and Miranda Lambert have all donated time and money to helping the victims get back on their feet.Formation hitmaker Beyonce has also helped the cause, with her church pastor Rudy Rasmus praising her work as &quot;a real blessing&quot; to the people of Houston, Texas.He said: &quot;Beyonc is extremely private and has done a lot that she has requested that we don't announce and publicise over the years. So right now, I think to each his own, she has always taken a position to help this city in its time of need, and now is no different. She has really stepped up and it's been a real blessing for us.&quot;Rasmus - who is the pastor at St John's Church in downtown Houston - has been working with BeyGOOD to gather supplies, which will be taken to those in need once the heavy rainfall clears.He added: &quot;We are right now mobilising to gather as many supplies as we can, knowing that in the next few days when the skies start clearing, people are going to be in intense need of items that of just right now have already lost their homes due to the flooding.&quot;