
                                            Makhosi Khoza announced on Thursday that she's quitting the ANC during a passionate and critical speech at Liliesleaf Farm.
                                         JOHANNESBURG - Former African National Congress (ANC) Member of Parliament Makhosi Khoza says if everyone involved in corruption and those implicated in the Gupta emails were to be prosecuted, most of the party’s leaders would be in jail. Khoza announced on Thursday that she's quitting the ANC during a passionate and critical speech at Liliesleaf Farm in Rivonia. She was due to appear at a disciplinary hearing next month, after publicly calling for President Jacob Zuma to step down ahead of the motion of no confidence. The KwaZulu-Natal branch says it has been vindicated, while the national ANC says they're concerned about the manner in which she has raised issues. Khoza insists that corruption has been institutionalised in the ANC. “It is my well-considered view that almost 80 to 90% of the ANC leadership would have to replace their tailored shining suits and pretty dresses with orange overalls. Their only natural home is prison.” She says she no longer wants to tap dance with the greedy hyenas of the ANC or be ridiculed for acting with moral conscience. WATCH: Makhosi Khoza: I reject ANC's leaders  'ANC TOO BROCKEN TO BE FIXED'Khoza says she'll only ever go back to the party if it takes decisive action against corruption and fires those who are involved in state capture. An emotional and passionate Khoza says she couldn't stay in the ANC any longer. “I know the road ahead is going to be torturous, not just to me but to my children as well. I am, therefore, not naïve to what lies ahead. But I will do it anyway.” She says she believes the ANC is too broken to be fixed but would consider going back if there are major changes. “When the ANC starts firing people because you are corrupt, then I will go back to the ANC.” Khoza says she is not joining the Democratic Alliance and there's been no indication that she's joining another party. She intends to work with anti-corruption organisations and carry the values from the "real" ANC with her. (Edited by Winnie Theletsane)