The 30-year-old Russian, three-time winner on Stuttgart&#8217;s clay courts, received a controversial wild card for the German tournament. STUTTGART Former world number one Maria Sharapova made a winning comeback to the tour on Wednesday following her 15-month doping ban, beating Italian Roberta Vinci in straight sets in the first round of the Stuttgart Grand Prix.The 30-year-old Russian, three-time winner on Stuttgart s clay courts, received a controversial wild card for the German tournament, having had no ranking points after more than a year out following her suspension.She had a nervous start in front of a supportive crowd but quickly found her strokes and her trademark shrieks to power past the world number 36 7-5 6-3 and set up a second-round clash against fellow Russian Ekaterina Makarova. It s the best feeling in the world. To know I would be walking back into the arena was very special, Sharapova said in a courtside interview. I was waiting for this moment for a long time. She added: When I am on the court, because I have been doing it for so long, even though you are rusty and trying to get a rhythm, you try to block everything out. I am a competitor by nature. That s when I am at my best. Sharapova has also received invitations to play in Madrid and Rome and will find out in May whether she will be given a wild card for the French Open.Some players, including Vinci, have criticized the wild card awards, saying a doping offender should have to start from scratch and build up their ranking by playing in the lower tournaments again.REDUCED BANSharapova s initial two-year suspension was reduced to 15 months after she tested positive at the 2016 Australian Open for meldonium, a medication the Russian had been taking within the rules but which was then reclassified as a banned drug. It s important to play, points, games, sets. It is a journey that officially starts today and I look forward to playing as many matches as I can, said Sharapova, the second highest paid female athlete last year according to Forbes. I spent a long time without hitting any balls. I didn t know when I would be back. I went to school for a little bit, I grew my business and had a normal life. I put the racquet away for a little bit. I felt I had to grow as a person and I felt I had to step up and do it. Sharapova was clearly nervous at the start, firing three forehands long in the first game, double-faulting on her first service game point and being broken by the Italian who took a quick 2-0 lead.It took 15 minutes for Sharapova to win her first game but she gradually improved her service, started attacking Vinci s and clinched the first set after an hour.Sharapova, growing in confidence with every point despite a dozen unforced errors in the first set, broke the Italian early in the second, and her 11th ace put her 5-3 ahead.She broke the 34-year-old again to secure her first win on her first match point.