Democratic Alliance leader Mmusi Maimane says this is not an anti-African National Congress (ANC) agenda but an anti-Zuma move. JOHANNESBURG Opposition parties have united in a push to remove President Jacob Zuma from office.Representatives from the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF), Democratic Alliance (DA), United Democratic Movement (UDM), Congress of the People, Inkatha Freedom Party, African Christian Democratic Party and other parties met in Johannesburg on Monday to formulate a plan to get Zuma out of office.Some parties have turned to the courts, while others have filed a motion of no confidence in Zuma.The EFF s Dali Mpofu says: Whether it s the vote of no confidence, whether it s this or the court action, our aim is to galvanise society to say that enough is enough. At the same time, DA leader Mmusi Maimane, agreeing with Mpofu, says this is not an anti-African National Congress (ANC) agenda but anti-Zuma. Nobody is calling for the regime change. We re very clear that we want somebody that will uphold the Constitution, will ensure that they govern for the interest of the people of South Africa, that s the suitability criteria. And therefore, subsequent to that, I m sure consultations will take place and nomination will be put forward. The IFP s Albert Mncwango says: The fact that this debate is not an academic exercise, we can never be wrong because we re dead serious about the crisis that the country finds itself in. BUTHELEZI DISCOURAGES DAIFP president Mangosuthu Buthelezi said South Africa is at a crossroads and the current crisis will have deep repercussions.Buthelezi said leaders of opposition parties met in Johannesburg on Monday, where they discussed how to avert a disaster, as a result of what he says is the president failing the country.The IFP leader has strongly discouraged mass action and has instead called for other avenues to be explored first.Buthelezi said he has discouraged the DA from marching to the ANC headquarters, Luthuli House, because this will be seen as a provocative act. When believing itself to be under siege, the ANC will close its ranks and any ANC leader who may have begun listening to their conscience will listen to the louder voice of what they see as imminent danger. The IFP leader said the country must allow things to play out before taking decisions based on emotions. The IFP supports mass action, of course, we support the call to march to the Union Bulidings as suggested. But we believe that mass action should be the last resort as we have not yet seen the results of the request to the Speaker of Parliament. The IFP leader has called for calm and for a rational approach, emphasising that whatever happens next could see the loss of life.(Edited by Leeto M Khoza)