On state capture, former Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan told CNN'S Christiane Amanpour the law needs to take its course if profoundly wrong things are done. CAPE TOWN Former Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan has given his backing to a judicial commission of inquiry into state capture, saying this would 'clear the air'.He made the remarks in an interview with CNN.Former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela recommended in her State of Capture report that such an inquiry be established.Gordhan told CNN'S Christiane Amanpour that the law needs to take its course if profoundly wrong things are done.He told Amanpour he doesn't have any information which could implicate President Jacob Zuma.The former minister did add suggestions that not only Zuma but that people in the private and public sector needed to be tested.Gordhan did not directly answer Amanpour when she asked him whether he has faith in Zuma's leadership and whether he should step aside. He instead referred to the African National Congress's elective conference in December, where a new leadership will be elected. The opportunity is there for us to go through a process where we implement what we have been saying, which is that the ANC needs to renew itself, it needs to find its inner set of values again and sense mission in terms of serving South Africans. If it doesn t, there are obviously the kind of consequences that we are talking about. Amanpour repeated the question asking Gordhan whether he, personally, has any faith left in Zuma's leadership, which he side-stepped once again. There is no one person that leads a big organisation like the ANC. In South Africa, we have a culture we call collective leadership . I belong to the national executive of the ANC and I must share some of the burdens of the ANC not being able to do the right thing. He reiterated that he's worried about the state of the ANC, saying it may lose the 2019 elections. He also praised deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa, calling him brave.Ramaphosa has also called for a judicial commission of inquiry to probe allegations of state capture.WATCH: Gordhan: The ANC must change course or face the people(Edited by Masechaba Sefularo)