This is in sharp contrast to government&#8217;s appeal for citizens not to follow through with calls for a &#8220;national shutdown&#8221;. CAPE TOWN - Civil society groups, opposition parties, unions and religious leaders have intensified their call for South Africans to join various independent demonstrations planned around the country on Friday. This is in sharp contrast to government s appeal for citizens not to follow through with calls for a national shutdown .Despite government s calls for citizens not to take part in a national shut down on Friday in protest against President Jacob Zuma saying the country s economy is already too fragile, the different organisations say they are going ahead with mobilising citizens to take part in the demonstrations.Outa s Wayne Duvenage said: Feel free to organise ourselves in groups and stand outside your office with your placards. The Federation of Unions of South Africa s (Fedusa) Dennis George says they re also joining the mass demonstrations. We, as Fedusa, are going to participate with civil society, churches, religious organisation. Speaking on behalf of religious leaders, Rhema Church s Pastor Ray McCauley. We ask all our people to attend the marches that are being planned, particularly the one here in Pretoria. Government says it doesn t support what calls civil disobedience. SECTORS OF SOCIETY NEED TO BAND TOGETHER Meanwhile, the South African Chamber of Commerce and Industry (Sacci) says all sectors of society need to band together. This to help the economy after the country s credit rating was downgraded to junk status.The chamber s president Zeph Ndlovu says they have raised its concerns with the Presidency following S&amp;P Global s decision. Working hard with government, business, members of civil society and organised labour, we should be able to regain our fold. But moving forward, we need to make sure that every decision taken is a consultative result of getting together and looking at the best interest of the South African economy. (Edited by Winnie Theletsane)