Neymar was shown his second yellow card and dismissed midway through the second half. MADRID Neymar was sent off as Barcelona suffered a shock 2-0 defeat at Malaga on Saturday that scuppered their hopes of going top of La Liga and handed control of the title race to leaders to Real Madrid.Zinedine Zidane s Real were held to a 1-1 draw with Atletico Madrid in the capital derby earlier in the day, giving Barcelona the chance to go top on goal difference, but Luis Enrique s side squandered the opportunity and now sit three points behind Los Blancos, who have played a game less.Former Barcelona striker Sandro Ramirez opened the scoring for Malaga with a breakaway goal in the 32nd minute before Jony added a 90th-minute second for the hosts.Neymar was shown his second yellow card and dismissed midway through the second half.Luis Enrique was angry with several of referee Gil Manzano s decisions, including the award of a free kick rather than a penalty after Charles fouled Sergi Roberto in the box. It s curious that a team like us that doesn t usually kick people gets so many yellow cards in such an incomprehensible manner, he said. There was some very ugly tackles from behind from their team which didn t see them get booked and others committed by us which were given yellows. The rules are there to be interpreted, but equally for everyone. I don t understand how the foul on Sergi Roberto was given outside the area, but we are used to it. After the Madrid derby ended in a draw a victory at La Rosaleda would have sent Barcelona level with Madrid on 72 points.Barcelona started well but Juankar s long ball caught the visitors off guard and Sandro beat Jeremy Mathieu for pace before finishing past Marc-Andre ter Stegen with aplomb.Neymar was booked in the first half for tying his laces in front of a Malaga player trying to take a free kick and received his marching orders for a late tackle on Diego Llorente in the 65th minute.Adalberto Penaranda put the ball in the net for Malaga but his effort was incorrectly ruled out for offside.Malaga grabbed a second at the death, however, with the excellent Pablo Fornals unselfishly teeing up Jony.Earlier on Saturday, Madrid handed their arch-rivals the chance to depose them at the top of the table, as Antoine Griezmann grabbed an 85th-minute equaliser for Atletico.Pepe opened the scoring for Real with a looping header in the 52nd minute and it looked like the hosts would earn victory, until the Frenchman intervened late on, reaching Angel Correa s through ball and slotting home.Madrid coach Zidane put the dropped points down to a lapse in concentration. It was a great performance (from Real), but we just lost concentration for five minutes, he said. I can t say that Atletico played well. We didn t get the second goal and we suffered. 