The memorial service of late struggle icon Ahmed Kathrada is being held by the Kathrada and the Nelson Mandela foundations and the SACP after government cancelled the state memorial. JOHANNESBURG Struggle stalwart Ahmed Kathrada s widow and former cabinet minister Barbara Hogan has again lambasted President Jacob Zuma over his recent Cabinet reshuffle, telling the president that the country is not for sale.Hogan has been speaking at Saturday's memorial for her late husband who died this week from complications which developed after undergoing surgery to remove blood clotting from his brain last month.She has accused Zuma of sacrificing everything that the country's freedom fighters stood for.#KathradaMemorial &quot;President you have sacrificed everything we have worked on on the alter of corruption greed and more greed&quot; - B Hogan. VMHogan adds, If you had ears to hear and eyes to see, you would not have appointed four finance ministers in less than three years. You would not have recalled one of our finest finance ministers. The former minister has also criticised President Zuma for not sacking the former Communications Minister Faith Muthmbi and the social development Minister Bathabile Dlamini, who have both been criticised for their poor handling of crises in their departments. If you had ears to hear, and eyes to see you would step down. Mr President this country is not for sale, and a people united will never be defeated. #KathradaMemorial &quot;Mr President, do you have ears to hear, and eyes to see? Millions social grantees who lived in fear last month&quot; - B HoganHogan has also criticised Zuma for not sacking the former Communications Minister Faith Muthambi and the Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini.Senior politicians and ordinary South Africans have joined Ahmed Kathrada's family at a memorial service for the late struggle stalwart on Saturday afternoon.The service is being held by the Kathrada and the Nelson Mandela foundations and the South African Communist Party after government postponed the state memorial on Friday.Sacked Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan, his former deputy Mcebisi Jonas and former tourism Minister Derek Hanekom are among those attending. #KathradaMemorial Former Minister of Finance Pravin Gordhan attending Memorial at Johannesburg City Hall. LAMA post shared by Eyewitness News (@ewnupdates) on Apr 1, 2017 at 5:38am PDTEarlier, the Kathrada foundation's Busi Nkosi has reflected on the struggle icon s role in the fight for South Africa s liberation. You have fought your fight, you have run your race and it is up to us as young people to ensure that other young people remember your words. The most special words that I hold dear to my heart are: Freedom did not fall from the sky, but was fought for with blood, sweat and tears. (Edited by Masechaba Sefularo)