Numsa&#8217;s Phakamile Hlubi says over 500,000 bus commuters will on Wednesday have to find alternative means of transport because of the national bus strike. JOHANNESBURG/CAPE TOWN - Commuters who use 18 different bus services across the country will have to find alternative transport on Wednesday.Numsa's deadline for bus companies to meet their salary demands is close of business Tuesday and there has been no agreement. The union wants a 15% salary increase, while employers are offering 7.5%. Talks between the two deadlocked in early February and the attempt by the CCMA to mediate has ended with another stalemate.Numsa s Phakamile Hlubi says over 500,000 bus commuters will on Wednesday have to find alternative means of transport. Numsa wishes to reiterate its call to members of the public to make alternative arrangements on Wednesday if they were planning to use buses as a form of transportation. Hlubi says the union had given the bus services until Tuesday to meet their demands. Until the employers associations or the managers take our concerns seriously, particularly around improving the working conditions of our members, we will not be working on Wednesday. Satawu and Numsa have confirmed bus companies are yet to reach out to them about re-opening talks. Satawu spokesperson Zanele Sabela said: We have been waiting all day for employers to contact us, but we haven t heard anything, we re ready for a strike and we ve mobilised. In Cape Town, nearly 300 thousand commuters who use Golden Arrow and MyCiTi buses will be affected while the Go George service will also be hampered.Meanwhile, Transport Minister Joe Maswanganyi pleads for a speedy resolution to the labour dispute in the bus industry.REA VAYAThe operating company for Rea Vaya is urging commuters to make alternative travel arrangements for Wednesday.PioTrans has confirmed that it s received formal notification that its employees will join the national strike set to begin.Wednesday s strike is expected to affect the likes of Putco, Autopax and Greyhound among others.PioTrans spokesperson Dumisani Mntambo said: Our drivers won t be operating at all, so as a company, we won t be able to assist. Unfortunately, we don t know as to when we are going to resume operations because negations have deadlocked. GO GEORGEGeorge Municipality is the latest to announce that its bus service will be affected by the national bus strike.Go George joins Golden Arrow bus services as well as the City of Cape Town s MyCiTi, that are suspended from midnight due to the industrial action.George Municipality s Chantel Edwards-Klose said: The George bus drivers have confirmed that they intend to join the strike taking place tomorrow, which will start at midnight. We request that commuters make alternative arrangements for tomorrow because at this point we cannot guarantee how many or which routes will be running. (Edited by Winnie Theletsane)