The EFF, DA, IFP, UDM, ACDP, Cope and APC will be marching to the Union Buildings to put pressure on President Jacob Zuma to resign. JOHANNESBURG - Opposition parties say the African National Congress (ANC) is imploding under the leadership of President Jacob Zuma and will defend the country's democracy on Wednesday.The EFF, DA, IFP, UDM, ACDP, Cope and APC will be marching to the Union Buildings to put pressure on Zuma to resign.Last Friday, thousands of people took to the streets across the country calling for Zuma to step aside.Umkhonto we Sizwe Military Veterans Association soldiers from KwaZulu-Natal were deployed to Luthuli House to guard the ANC's headquarters.The EFF's Julius Malema says people must be educated on the importance of removing Zuma.&quot;It's not more about Zuma. It's about his recklessness, which is going to collapse this country and the only way of rescuing this country and its economy is to remove Zuma and then rebuild our economy.&quot;The DA s Refiloe Ntsekhe says they hope the joint march will have a greater impact. The purpose is to enhance the dissatisfaction that we were talking about on our march this past Friday. And this is to show that as South Africans we re really tired. So Zuma must go. Cope s Dennis Bloem says the rolling mass action will not stop until Zuma leaves office.A debate on a motion of no confidence against Zuma will be held in the National Assembly on 18 April.Bloem said they will not get tired of marching until Zuma resigns. Our supporters will gather outside Parliament when Members of Parliament will debate the vote of no confidence against Mr Zuma. WATCH: #ZumaMustFall - say citizens across SAEFF INVITES ANC MEMBERSThe EFF said African National Congress (ANC) members are welcome to join them in a protest against Zuma at the Union Buildings in Pretoria on Wednesday.EFF spokesperson Mbuyiseni Ndlozi said: All members of the ANC as well are invited to come and join because this is not a call to remove the ANC, it s a call to remove one individual who s at the infant stages of dictatorship. Let us unite against Zuma and his Gupta plan to take the country for his personal profit and corruption. 