Organisations behind Friday&#8217;s march to the Union Buildings say they have been intimidated allegedly by ANCYL members at Church Square in Pretoria. PRETORIA - Organisations behind Friday s march to the Union Buildings say they have been intimidated, allegedly by African National Congress Youth League (ANCYL) members at Church Square in Pretoria. Organisations including Save SA and Section 27 have called on South Africans to gather in the capital on Friday and join them in their march for President Jacob Zuma to step down. Section 27's Mark Heywood said: They were not physically attacked. A group of people came here and threatened us while we were meeting. They threatened to harm us... they threatened to also come back with large numbers of people. They destroyed a number of banners. This was ANCYL members. The demonstration is in response to President Zuma's Cabinet reshuffle in which Pravin Gordhan was axed along with four other ministers. A motion of no confidence debate in President Zuma will be held on 18 April in Parliament. The decision has seen South Africa s sovereign credit rating being downgraded to junk by ratings agency S&amp;P Global. It also emerged that Moody s has placed Eskom on review for a downgrade. The ratings agency says the action follows potential weakening of government s credit profile. WE ARE NOT AFRAID WE ARE STAYING HERE The Save SA s Themba Masango says ANCYL members allegedly arrived at Church Square demanding them to stop protesting against the president.The organisation says they are going to protest in Pretoria under the hashtag #OccupyChurchSquare throughout the week.Masongo says about 10 youth league members arrived in Church Square where they have set up camp, intimidated and burnt their anti Zuma banners.Only one banner is left hanging in the main camp and six others have been reduced to ashes just 10 metres away.#PeoplesMarch Save SA says ANCYL members instructed them to leave church square. *video courtesy of Save SA VM pic.twitter.com/kf9PKv75DcMasango says they will not budge. We are definitely staying. We are not afraid nor intimidated. We are staying here and we are going to make sure that our voice is heard. We are calling upon every single patriotic South African to come through to Church Square, especially tonight. He says one of their tents and a bag were stolen, adding that the ANCYL members have warned them that they will be back before the end of the night.(Edited by Zamangwane Shange &amp; Masechaba Sefularo)