The EFF, DA, IFP, UDM, ACDP, Cope and the APC will be marching to the Union Buildings this week as mounting calls for the president to step down continue. JOHANNESBURG - Opposition parties have called on South Africans to rally behind them on Wednesday as they embark on what they call a serious campaign to save the country from President Jacob Zuma.The EFF, DA, IFP, UDM, ACDP, Cope and the APC will be marching to the Union Buildings this week as mounting calls for the president to step down continue.Last week saw thousands take to the streets across the country in anti-Zuma marches.The opposition parties have held a briefing ahead of its planned march in Pretoria this week.UDM leader Bantu Holomisa is once again appealing to ANC MPs to do the right thing and vote against the president when Parliament tables a motion of no confidence next week. If they fail to hear the loud cries of South Africans to remove their junk status president, the people must unite in dictating their own destiny. The EFF's Julius Malema says it's time for ANC MPs to choose between the country and the president. They are not going to kill you, they are going to take your job, and you're scared to save a country because you want to keep a job. Malema says Wednesday s march is a start in educating South Africans, especially the poor, about the impact of being downgraded to junk status by the ratings agencies. It s not more about Zuma, it s about his recklessness which is going to collapse this country. Saying it in simple, practical terms what does this mean to a person who stays in a shack and wants to own a house in future. He says the only way to rebuild South Africa's economy is by removing Zuma. The only way of rescuing this country and its economy, the first step in the right direction, is to remove Zuma. The EFF leader has warned pro-Zuma activists not to attempt to disrupt the mass action to the seat of government this week.The opposition parties say they have united to show the country that South Africa can no longer afford to have a president who has put the nation into junk status.Opposition parties say Wednesday s march to the Union Buildings forms part of rolling mass action campaign aimed at raising awareness among ordinary South Africans of the impact of President Zuma has on the country's ailing economy.#ZumaMustFall EFF joins hands with other political parties on a #ZumaMustFall march to the union building in Pretoria next Wednesday. KHM pic.twitter.com/olxJnFoLCE(Edited by Refilwe Thobega)