&quot;This is rubbish, and must stop!&quot;I found myself shouting those words as I scrolled through my Facebook timeline.I'd come across a Daily Vox story revealing how a certain Facebook page is using derogatory, racist images of the president in an effort to encourage people to mobilise against the president.&quot;...an image comparing President Zuma to a gorilla was shared over 1,800 times. This is indicative of how pervasive racist sentiment is in South Africa.&quot;This is rubbish. And must stop. It makes my skin crawl.Please don't for one minute confuse my disgust at such sentiments as an acceptance of the president's recent actions. Those deserve our utter contempt and condemnation. His firing of the Finance Minister and his deputy are self-serving, manipulative, hugely damaging and disgraceful actions (need I go on?) of a sitting president.The political rhetoric of the past week has also been very been complex - and even dangerous! We've seen fake intelligence reports, misinformation, 'purposefully accidental' leaks and distortion. We've heard calls for the president to step down and other calls for unity within the ruling party.There have been chilling threats by our newly appointed Police Minister warning anti-Zuma protesters not to take to the streets.Shit is getting real, as some would say.But - and this is a huge but that I feel strongly about it - none of this gives anyone the right to resort to vile language and move into racist boxes that only serve to dehumanise others. Human decency and mutual levels of respect should always be remembered.We are going through an exceptionally serious and difficult time as a nation, but why delegitimise our legitimate problems with insults, abuse and horrible racial slurs?It disturbs me deeply that people will use historically significant moments in our political environment to try and validate their racism. If this is who you are, and are looking to protest and make your voice heard on Friday - please rather don't.Racists masquerading as revolutionaries are not what this country needs. Not now and not ever.As for the planned events for Friday, I will not be there as mine is a different role that needs to be played. I will be in our newsroom as we watch, read, report, probe, interrogate and cover every angle of these political shenanigans. We'll ensure that we tell the stories of this country as they unfold before us because South Africa needs courageous and ethical journalism now more than ever.Katy Katopodis is EWN group editor-in-chief. Follow her on Twitter: @KatyKatopodis