President Jacob Zuma&#8217;s fitness to lead the country will be debated in Parliament later this month. CAPE TOWN - President Jacob Zuma s fitness to lead the country will be debated in Parliament on 18 April.National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbete has granted opposition requests for a special sitting of Parliament to debate a motion of no confidence in him.African National Congress (ANC) Members of Parliament (MPs) last year voted down two motions of no confidence in Zuma.This latest one comes amid a groundswell of protest over Zuma s decision to fire former Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan and his deputy Mcebisi Jonas.The ANC has 249 seats and the combined opposition 151, which means more than 50 ruling party MPs would have to break ranks for the motion to succeed. Opposition parties say they should.The Democratic Alliance s John Steenhuisen said: Enough is enough it s time to stop President Jacob Zuma, to stop this madness, to stop this damage, to our economy and the socio-political fabric of South Africa. It s time to do the right thing and stand up for the good and right of South Africa. Steenhuisen says this time it s different. There seems to be a far bigger nationwide mobilisation that s going to be putting a lot of pressure on public representatives across all parties. The Economic Freedom Fighters Mbuyiseni Ndlozi said: They, like Zuma, must defy the ANC. We call on them to make the right decision and save the country from the instability, economically and otherwise, that Zuma has plunged it into. Ndlozi adds: We call on ANC members to vote in the best interests of their consciences. United Democratic Movement leader Bantu Holomisa said: The lobbying will intensify, especially where we extend our hands to our brothers and sisters in the ruling party. Holomisa also told ANC MPs: Let us put the interests of South Africa and South Africans first before we can think of protecting Zuma, who seemingly has become a dictator in this country. Parliament s rules don t allow for a secret vote and ANC MPs jobs will be on the line if they vote against the party line.(Edited by Winnie Theletsane)