The 35-year-old tennis star who&#8217;s engaged to Reddit co-founder Alexis Ohanian said she is 20-weeks pregnant. CAPE TOWN - Serena Williams has announced on SnapChat that fianc Alexis Ohanian are expecting their first child.The 35-year-old tennis star said she is 20-weeks pregnant as she captioned the post &quot;20 weeks&quot;.She deleted the Snapchat post a few minutes after it was posted.Serena Williams is pregnant!! pic.twitter.com/u2RfhSzlcBWorld number two tennis player Williams hasn t played since winning the Australian Open in January.In early March, the 23-time Grand Slam champion withdrew from Indian Wells and the Miami Open, citing a left knee injury.The news comes just a few months after the couple announced in December they are getting married.The sporting icon announced she and the Reddit co-founder were to tie the knot after just over a year of dating with a poem posted on her verified Reddit account.She wrote: I came home. A little late. Someone had a bag packed for me. And a carriage waited. Destination: Rome. To escort me to my very own charming. Back to where our stars first collided. And now it was full circle. At the same table we first met by chance. But by choice. Down on knee. He said 4 words. And I said yes. Williams previously revealed she wants to have children someday but still feels like she is too young.She explained: I definitely want to have kids one day. That s something I ve always wanted since as long as I could remember. And the older I get, the more I m like, I m too young! And speaking about her legacy, she said: I never thought about leaving a tennis legacy. I always thought about leaving a legacy of fulfilment, living out your dreams, and giving back. I m proud to have opened [two] schools in Africa and one in Jamaica [through the Serena Williams Fund and its partners]. I was given a lot. I was given two parents. That s already starting above a lot of kids. And then I was given the opportunity to play tennis and parents who supported that. I feel I can give back. Tweeps reacted with shock and excitement at the news. Here are some their reactions:@etnow @serenawilliams Congratulations Serena!Serena Williams is the GOATWhen you realize Serena Williams won the Australian Open pregnant and you can't muster up the energy to do the elliptical for 10 minutes. pic.twitter.com/R8qLkn1YABSerena Williams baby is going to be so cuteSERENA WILLIAMS IS PREGNANT. I'm so happy for her!Drake is leaving wild voicemails on Serena Williams phone right now pic.twitter.com/nrDa6ELfb9Additional information by Bang Showbiz.(Edited by Zamangwane Shange)