When you participate in conversations online in the comments section, it s pretty common to have a disconnect between your identity and the type of comment you re making. This is called Online Disinhibition Effect, a term coined by psychologist John Suler. The theory goes on to explain that when you shed your identity, the usual constraints of your behaviour go too.Effectively, who I am online does not reflect who I am in every day life, and what I say online does not necessarily reflect what I would ordinarily say out loud in real life as well because I can hide behind the anonymous identity I have created for myself on the comments section. Cartoonist Peter Steiner, as far back as 1993 - the toddler days of the Internet illustrated this same theory in one of his strips: On the Internet, nobody knows you re not a dog.As in life, some conversations are constructive, and some are pointless. Then of course, because we re only human, we do reach a point where even the constructive conversations become exhausting. Comments become too much, information gets overwhelming and before you know it, you re a ball of anxiety just because you ve spent too much time reading or listening.On social media, it s easy to shut all this down, you can just leave. Delete Twitter and Facebook. Avoid it at all costs. Even if you never comment, by getting rid of the platforms, you save yourself from being talked AT, so to speak. Embrace the calm and get your news the old-fashioned way. Log on to websites and start reading. But alas, you are still not safe.The comment section creeps up on you, and the curtain of anonymity that it provides as safety for its users is even worse. You can t get away from it, the only protective mechanism for the reader, and the writer even, is if website creators decide to cut the comment section concept out of their design. There are a few advantages to consider when it comes to the comment section s existence. These advantages are mostly why these vacuums of opinion still survive. Here are a few:They encourage public participation. When social media played less of a role in public discourse, comment sections promoted conversation. A sense of anonymity built a community that was able to boost creative thinking and even lead to problem solving. A psychological study found that interactions that did not occur face to face also led to increased participation and risk-taking when it came to sharing opinion.Another advantage about the anonymous identity on forums is that they are self regulating. People who post anonymously are taken less seriously and their opinions are discounted far more than someone who can be identified as a source. Therefore, a lot of comments on news websites, for example, are not taken into consideration by other readers who don t necessarily participate in the discourse because those readers are not fooled into thinking that an anonymous commentator will change their minds on the subject s opinion or ethical issue. They are not considered influential or credible, so they aren t a lot of work when it comes to monitoring these sections.Then, of course, there s a case for the comment section s ability to enhance journalism. The idea is built around both points mentioned above. If readers are engaging in the same article, it creates a sense of shared reality. Being able to engage in this shared reality immediately offers respondents the ability to ask questions, engage with journalists and point out errors. But this only exists in the best circumstances. (See point two above, where a lot of this is not taken seriously because of the fake identity aspect). In these rare circumstances where the interaction is constructive, a website s journalism can become enriched through consideration of discourse that involves a degree of intellect and critical thinking.In South Africa, a lot of newsrooms are understaffed. It takes a lot of time and energy to moderate comment sections. And while the anonymous ones are self regulating, there are many that still violate the community standards of a website s comment and opinion policy these disclaimers are often positioned in a transparent way before users can even think of posting comments. But abusive insults with offensive language and ad hominem attacks still exist that derail important and critical conversations that need to be had.When I was the digital editor at the M&amp;G, the online sub editors moderated the comment section in shifts. Comments would have to be okayed and pass strict policy constraints before they were published by the subs. This chore came over and above intense and rigid publishing schedules that occur in a digital newsroom to keep websites updated. Eight hours out of a day like that where any news can break at any time is tedious work. And to what end? The Guardian recently did a study of its comment section where it noted that 1.4 million of its comments were deleted by comment moderators because instead of adding to informed public discourse, it sought to enrage. The Guardian s comment section remains, but is now adhering to even stricter rules of moderation to try and increase the potential of creating better journalism through comments.In December last year, online platform VICE cut their comment section all together, citing a lack of time or desire to continue monitoring crap . Editor in chief, Jonathan Smith said that comments Too often they devolve into racist, misogynistic maelstroms where the loudest, most offensive, and stupidest opinions get pushed to the top and the more reasoned responses drowned out in the noise .Newsrooms monitor conversations occurring on Twitter and Facebook as well. Cutting a comment section is not silencing the public as it would once have been seen as before. The personal worth of newsroom staff members and public discussion of work still has ample opportunity to exist.So, the advantages of having a comment section still stand in an age of social media? Think about the trolls and the bots. There are people who are able to even make a living out of anonymity on the Internet because the economy of harassment and fake identity thrives.Haji Mohamed Dawjee is a commentator on gender equality, sexuality, culture, race relations and feminism as well as ethics in the South African media environment.