ANCYL president Collin Maine says the ANC is not deterred by anti-Zuma protests. JOHANNESBURG - Following a day of nationwide protests against President Jacob Zuma, African National Congress (ANC) leaders say they will continue to defend the president, whatever it takes.On Friday, thousands of ANC supporters from the Free State, Mpumalanga and KwaZulu-Natal joined MKMVA members outside the party s headquarters, chanting songs in supports of the president.ANCYL president Collin Maine says the ANC is not deterred by anti-Zuma protests. We are here to tell them President Zuma is going nowhere until 2019. But MKMVA chair Kebby Maphatsoe seems a little worried about the demonstrations, accusing marchers of trying to overthrow government. It s a clear agenda of regime change that we ve been talking about and it is now in the open. And despite the march around Luthuli House and stages being set up for leaders, ANC spokesperson Khusela Sangoni says they didn t plan to have a gathering. There is nothing we have organised at Luthuli House, members and supporters of the ANC started descending and then the leadership felt that we should take out one of our trucks. With another anti-Zuma march planned for next week, ANC leaders say they will mobilise supporters to again show their support for the president.WATCH: Tshwane Anti-Zuma peoples marchZUMA'S DAYS IN OFFICE ARE NUMBEREDAt the same time, South Africans who took part in a march to the Union Buildings say they hope the mass demonstration has sent a strong message to President Zuma that his days in office are numbered.Thousands of people including civil society groups, political parties and religious leaders marched from Church Square in the capital to the seat of government on Friday.Many who attended the protest at the Union Buildings flew the South African flag high and held up placards against Zuma.Marchers say they hope their participation in the march will evoke change within the structures of the ANC. We want to get the message across to the ANC as the ruling party, to remove president Jacob Zuma. We can t afford to see your children and grandchildren to suffer when this country goes down. Religious leaders also addressed protestors and had this message for the president. If you humble yourself and resign, the Lord will lift you up. Save SA convener Sipho Pityana told demonstrators the march is the beginning of many more around the country that will continue until Zuma steps down.WATCH: Cape Town Unites: Inside one of the city s biggest marches Additional reporting by Thando Kubheka.(Edited by Winnie Theletsane)