The move comes in a week when Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull announced axing a temporary work visa popular with foreigners. SYDNEY - Australia plans to raise the bar for handing out citizenships by lengthening the waiting period, adding a new &quot;Australian values&quot; test and raising the standard for English language as part of a shakeup of its immigration program. The move comes in a week when Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull announced axing a temporary work visa popular with foreigners and replacing it with a tougher program in a bid to put &quot;Australia First&quot;.Australia has seen the rise of nationalist, anti-immigration politics with far-right wing parties such as One Nation garnering strong public support, while the popularity of Turnbull's ruling center-right government has been languishing.The new citizenship requirements are expected to be passed by parliament with the backing of right-wing Senators. On Thursday, Turnbull said basic English would no longer be sufficient to become an Australian citizen under the new test. Applicants need a minimum level 6.0 equivalent of the International English Language Testing System, and a person will only become eligible for citizenship after four years as a permanent resident, up from one year. &quot;What we are doing is strengthening our multicultural society and strengthening our values,&quot; Turnbull told reporters in Canberra. &quot;Australian citizenship should be honored, cherished. It's a privilege.&quot;&quot;I reckon if we went out today and said to Australians, &quot;Do you think you could become an Australian citizen without being able to speak English?&quot; They'd say, &quot;You're kidding. Surely you'd have to be able to speak English.&quot;Turnbull said the current immigration process was mainly &quot;administrative&quot; while the citizenship test largely a &quot;civics test.&quot;The current citizenship multiple-choice questionnaire tests a person's knowledge of Australian laws, national symbols and colors of the Aboriginal flag. But Turnbull said it was not adequate to judge whether a person would accept &quot;Australian values.&quot;&quot;If we believe that respect for women and children and saying no to violence...is an Australian value, and it is, then why should that not be made a key part, a fundamental part, a very prominent part, of our process to be an Australian citizen? Why should the test simply be a checklist of civic questions?&quot;The new citizenship test will include questions about whether applicants have sent their kids to school, whether they go to work - if they are of working age - and whether becoming part of unruly gangs in cities were Australian values.&quot;We're standing up for Australian values and the parliament should do so too,&quot; Turnbull said.