ANC MP Makhosi Khoza has also confirmed writing a Facebook post in which she says the politics of patronage has finally claimed the sanity of the ANC&#8217;s leadership. JOHANNESBURG African National Congress (ANC) Member of Parliament (MP) Makhosi Khoza says the party s leadership should never have let things get to the point where the party has to use its parliamentary majority to protect President Jacob Zuma. She also says no matter which way the ANC votes on the confidence motion against Zuma, the party is going to suffer.In a Facebook post, Khoza says the politics of patronage has finally claimed the sanity of the ANC s leadership. If you re a leader of society you ve to listen to the diverse views of the society, no matter how painful they may sound. I think we ve to as the ANC. She says the party s leadership has to stop and listen to the people who marched against Zuma last week.The MP says there is simply no way out for the ANC in the confidence motion against President Zuma. Whether we vote for or against, both ways the ANC loses and both ways it s going to dent significantly its status as a leader of society. Khoza adds the party s leadership has to stop and listen to the people who marched against Zuma last week.LISTEN: ANC MP writes about 'leadership injudiciousness' in partyNO RACISMKhoza says it's worrying that protests against the president have been labeled as racist while the concerns of many South Africans are ignored.This comes after the president claimed the mass marches in Johannesburg, Cape Town and Durban showed that racism still exists in the country.Khoza says she doesn't believe the ANC s top leadership is reacting properly to these mass marches. I was concerned by the labels used by these people. They re not addressing the real issue of their concerns. The ANC MP says she can no longer remain quiet about what's happening in the ANC. If you are a leader, even your silence says something. If you are silent you are saying something and assuming a particular moral posture. WATCH: Zuma's reaction to #AntiZumaMarches(Edited by Leeto M Khoza and Shimoney Regter)