Following what the DA has called a successful peaceful march on Friday, Maimane has called on South Africans not to lose momentum. JOHANNESBURG Democratic Alliance (DA) leader Mmusi Maimane has called on all South Africans, irrespective of which political party they support, to join opposition parties who have come together for next week s national shut down Following what the DA has called a successful peaceful march on Friday, Maimane has called on South Africans not to lose momentum.Thousands of DA supporters joined thousands of South Africans who marched across the country on Friday against President Jacob Zuma s leadership The march which was initially intended to go to Luthuli House had to be moved. The party says this is after they received threats and police officials told the leadership they wouldn t be able to guarantee the safety of marchers. Singing, dancing and anti-Zuma chanting was the order of the day.Many attending say it was an emotional experience. It s hard because this is not the South Africa Nelson Mandela had in mind. We re absolutely overwhelmed, it was beautiful. Maimane says this is only the beginning. And on the 18th we ll march, on the 27th we ll march because we ll continue until we can say South Africa is back to where it belongs. DA spokesperson Relioe Ntsheke says the march program was cut short because they were told ANC supporters nearby at Luthuli House were making their way to the DA march.SOUTH AFRICANS VOW TO MARCHAt the same time, South Africans who took part in a march to the Union Buildings say they hope the mass demonstration has sent a strong message to Zuma that his days in office are numbered.Thousands of people including civil society groups, political parties and religious leaders marched from Church Square in the capital to the seat of government on Friday.Many who attended the protest at the Union Buildings flew the South African flag high and held up placards against Zuma.Marchers say they hope their participation in the march will evoke change within the structures of the anc. We want to get the message across to the ANC as the ruling party, to remove President Jacob Zuma. We can t afford to see your children and grandchildren to suffer when this country goes down. Religious leaders also addressed protestors and had this message for the president. If you humble yourself and resign, the Lord will lift you up. Save SA convener Sipho Pityana told demonstrators the march is the beginning of many more around the country that will continue until Zuma steps down.(Edited by Leeto M Khoza)