ANC Youth League president Collin Maine says the ANC is not deterred by anti Zuma protests. JOHANNESBURG Following a day of nationwide protests against President Jacob Zuma, African National Congress (ANC) leaders say they will continue to defend the president whatever it takes.On Friday, thousands of ANC supporters from the Free State, Mpumalanga and KwaZulu-Natal joined Umkhonto we sizwe military veterans association (MKMVA) members outside the party's headquarters, chanting songs in supports of the president.ANC Youth League president Collin Maine says the ANC is not deterred by anti Zuma protests. We re here to tell them that Zuma is going nowhere until 2019. But MKMVA Chair Kebby Maphatsoe seems a little worried about the demonstrations, accusing marchers of trying to overthrow government. It s a clear agenda of the regime change. We ve been talking about it, it s now in the open. And despite the march around Luthuli House and stages being set up for leaders, ANC spokesperson Khusela Sangoni says they didn t plan to have a gathering. There s nothing that we ve organised at Luthuli House. Members and supporters of the ANC started descending and the leadership would have then felt that let s take one of our tracks. With another anti Zuma march planned for next week, ANC leaders say they will mobilise supporters to again show their support for the president. [Watch] Tens of thousands during #anti-Zumamarch in the capitalAt the same time, ANC presidential contender Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma appears to have referred to the Save SA protests on Friday as rubbish .She was responding to a Twitter conversation in which Treasury spokesperson Mayihlome Tshwete said the Save SA protests were well-funded.Another person then said it s mind-blowing how many resources their privilege affords them.Dlamini-Zuma then said: This is what they are protecting... hence some of us are not part of this rubbish. They must join us for the march for our land they stole... ANCLY IN KZN VOWS TO DEFEND RULING PARTYThe KwaZulu-Natal ANCYL has vowed to fight for the ruling party until the bitter end, and has urged those calling for the president to step down to stop provoking them.Provincial secretary Thanduxolo Sabela led a march from the Durban CBD toward the beachfront, not far from where the Democratic Alliance (DA) had earlier been demonstrating.The league says it wanted to confront the anti- Zuma protesters, to question what he has done to them.KZN police have confirmed the clashes between the DA and ANCYL in Pietermaritzburg, but no arrests have been made.The struggle song dubul ibhunu (shoot the boer) was banned by Equality Court s judge Collin Lamont in 2011 when the now Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader Julius Malema sang it at a rally.But this did not stop Sabela, who has described the DA supporters who marched against President Zuma as thieves who stole the land. In fact, these white people who stole the land should be locked up in jail because they are thieves who stole the land.&quot;The thousands of supporters moved from the Durban beachfront back to the Durban CBD, where they occupied an Absa branch there, demanding for the billions stolen to be returned.(Edited by Leeto M Khoza)