Banking Council Managing Director Cas Coovadia says this decision by Fitch shows how quickly international markets can react. JOHANNESBURG The Banking Council says Fitch s decision to downgrade the country to junk status shows that the African National Congress (ANC) needs to ask itself if it is making decisions in the national interest.On Friday, Fitch said it was dropping South Africa s status to below investment grade because it believed economic policy was about to change.But the National Treasury has said the fact Pravin Gordhan was removed as minister and replaced by Malusi Gigaba doesn t mean any policy will change.Banking Council Managing Director Cas Coovadia says this decision by Fitch shows how quickly international markets can react. We need to now begin to understand what the very, very quick negative impact of that decision involves and I think that we need serious political leadership in our country. Other economists have said ratings agencies had already warned what could happen if the wrong decisions were made.Meanwhile, it appears some international banking indices could start to remove South Africa from their listings.FINANCE MINISTRY DISAGREESRatings agency Fitch says its downgraded rating to below investment grade or junk because it believes President Zuma s reshuffle will lead to a change in economic policy.It also says it s worried specifically about government s proposed nuclear deal.On Monday, S&amp;P Global ratings became the first agency to cut the SA rating to junk status, after Zuma removed Gordhan and replaced him at the finance ministry with Gigaba.The Finance Ministry s Mayihlome Tshwete says they don t agree with all of Fitch s findings. Typically that the executive change will lead to possible policy changes. The minister has been at great pains to reiterate that the policy trajectory of the department is not going to change. But economist Xhantyi Payi said the agencies had warned that this would happen. We ve actually walked into what they thought and had indicated would be contributors to a downgrade. The fact two ratings agencies have now cut the rating to below investment grade could lead to South Africa dropping out of some global bond indexes, and thus force some international funds to sell their stocks here.LEADERS REACT TO LATEST DOWNGRADESLeaders of the march against Zuma in Pretoria say South Africans need to wake up and realise Zuma is to blame along with his corrupt stooges.Save SA convener Sipho Pityana said South Africans must realise that President Zuma is an ambassador for corruption and that the country will only become a joke under his leadership. We ve got to get rid of this president until we do that nobody would believe that we re serious about restoring good governance and making sure that we reverse some of the nonsense that s going on. The South African Communist Party (SACP) s Solly Mapaila said under Zuma s leadership there is no hope. He s handed over the sovereignty of our country to the Guptas. We mandated him to lead through the elections, now he has abdicated his responsibilities. Because of that we can no longer have confidence in him on the basis of who takes decision for the interest of our public. Earlier on Friday, Democratic Alliance leader Mmusi Maimane told those gathered at the Union Buildings that South Africa is not a junk country, but it's a country with a junk president. ANC NOT WORRIED ABOUT ANY JUNK STATUS ANC Youth League leader Collin Maine said the ANC is not worried about any junk status and says if the economy falls, they will wait for it to rise again.Maine was briefing ANC supporters outside the ANC s headquarters on Friday afternoon.Members of the MKMVA and the party s supporters gathered outside the ANC headquarters saying they are defending the president and the ANC against those who want regime change. We re here to tell everyone that Zuma is going nowhere until 2019. We support the removal of Pravin Gordhan. He has not been serving the people of South Africa but a friend of capital.A supporter said: The outcome of Luthuli House is to defend the radical economic transformation that s being led by President Zuma. But also to show the world that we re not going to allow the people who want regime change undemocratically. (Edited by Leeto M Khoza)