The party says the use of the PPU to protect Dlamini-Zuma following reports of threats on her life is an abuse of state resources to finance a presidential campaign. JOHANNESBURG The Freedom Front Plus (FF Plus) says if Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma's life is really under threat, then the African National Congress (ANC) should provide her protection using their military wing.Following growing questions on why the former chairperson of the African Union was provided presidential security, the police said on Saturday the decision was informed by a threat to her life and security assessment. But the FF Plus's Pieter Groenewald says this is a misuse of state resources. The FF Plus say that the protection of Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma by the VIP section of the police is the misuse of state resources to finance a presidential campaign. Groenewald says Dlamini-Zuma is not an office bearer and as a normal citizen of South Africa she should not be afforded presidential benefits. If her safety is under threat, she should simply stay away from public meetings, and if she insists on attending meetings the ANC and the uMkhonto weSizwe veterans should protect her at their own expense. On Friday the police's national spokesperson Sally de Beer says in terms of the Presidential Protection Unit s (PPU) mandate Dlamini-Zuma is the former African Union chairperson and further protection has been approved. Protection is provided to the president and the deputy president of the republic of South Africa, former presidents and foreign heads of state and their spouses. The Chairperson of the AU is afforded courtesies given by the department of international relations and corporation, with the status of president, and while serving in that capacity Dr Dlamini-Zuma was provided protection according to this prescript. De Beer says for security reasons the South African Police Service can't discuss any details of the security afforded to her. The acting national police commissioner Khomotso Phahlane, to whom the PPU reports, said for security reasons the police will not discuss or deliberate on any details of security provided to Dr Dlamini-Zuma in relation to the mentioned threat and security assessment. _ _ Additional reporting by Katleho Sekhotho(Edited by Masechaba Sefularo)