Cosatu has revealed that President Jacob Zuma called the federation&#8217;s leaders on Tuesday morning, asking for a meeting. JOHANNESBURG - Congress of South African Trade Unions (Cosatu) has revealed that President Jacob Zuma called the federation s leaders on Tuesday morning asking for a meeting, but it seems it was a little too late as the federation then continued with its position to call on him to step down. The federation held a briefing earlier on Tuesday, where it announced that it no longer believes in the president s leadership abilities. Although Cosatu informed the African National Congress (ANC) on Monday that it would be calling for the president to step down, the federation s President Sdumo Dlamini says when the president called on Tuesday morning he wasn t trying to get the federation to back track on its call. On Tuesday morning, the office of the president - or the president himself called and said 'Can I meet Cosatu'. It is late as it is. Let that not be confused about the calls Cosatu has made. #Cosatu says Zuma has failed to deal with incompetent ministers in his cabinet. CMEyewitness News asked Dlamini if he believed the president s call was a little too late. The first inclination to the question is; I wish this call would ve come last week Thursday (30 March), then it would ve saved the federation this situation that we re now in. Cosatu hasn t accepted or denied the president s request to meet yet, but its says it wants to consult their members first.WATCH: Cosatu: Zuma no longer has ability to lead#Cosatu says Zuma can&#39;t use &quot;prerogative&quot; argument, because they helped ANC campaign, and &quot;voters gave ANC mandate,not individual&quot;Earlier federation said Presidnet Jacob Zuma's continued presidency is no longer stable for the working class.Cosatu's Sizwe Pamla says Zuma stepping down is in the best interest of the workers. At an ANC and alliance level, there is no cohesiveness. At government level there is no cohesiveness but also in the way the country has been polarised, we can all trace the source of the problem. (Edited by Zamangwane Shange)