ANC presidential hopeful Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma says SA is the first country she has seen whose economy is run by the minority, with majority not being part of the mainstream economy. JOHANNESBURG - African National Congress (ANC) presidential Hopeful Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma says South Africa is the only country she knows of whose economy is run by minorities, and adds that the ANC will ensure this changes. Dlamini-Zuma was addressing the ANC cadre Assembly in the Free State earlier on Thursday, where the party s national and provincial leaders explained to ANC members the current political development in the country. She told supporters people who marched against President Jacon Zuma last week and this week, are those against government s agenda for radical economic transformation. Dlamini-Zuma says South Africa is the first country she has seen whose economy is run by the minority, with majority not being part of the mainstream economy. That has to change it s not sustainable. We can t sustain a situation where the majority of the people are not participating in the economy. She says all the ANC wants to do with the agenda for radical economic transformation is improve participation of black people in the economy. No wanting to exclude we just want to do what s right. The NEC member says a dominant narrative is being created about radical economic transformation confusing ANC members in the process, saying the narrative must be changed. ANC TOP LEADERSFollowing public disagreements amongst the top six leaders of the governing party around President Zuma s Cabinet reshuffle, Dlamini-Zuma says leaders must stop attacking each other.ANC Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa, Secretary General Gwede Mantashe and Treasurer General Zweli Mkhize publicly expressed their unhappiness about President Zuma's changes to his Cabinet, particularly the axing of Pravin Gordhan as finance minister.Dlamini-Zuma says ANC leaders can't attack each other. Even if you don t understand the issues, before you understand them you can t attack a comrade. She says leaders must always sit and resolve issues. If we think there are mistakes, there ll always be mistakes, let s go back to the drawing board, discuss them and agree on the way forward. The NEC member also urged ANC supporters not to support programs organized by opposition parties.(Edited by Zamangwane Shange)