Opposition parties marched in Pretoria demanding that the president steps down, but ANC members have rallied to support Jacob Zuma. JOHANNESBURG - President Jacob Zuma s supporters have gathered in Kliptown to celebrate his birthday, saying they want to show the world that the African National Congress (ANC) is behind its leader. Opposition parties marched in Pretoria on Wednesday afternoon demanding that he steps down, but ANC members have rallied to support Zuma.#ZumaBirthday where the president will be sitting. CM pic.twitter.com/THLc7qy6w3The president turns 75 today and his party has organised a rally to celebrate his birthday at the Walter Sisulu Square in Soweto.Hundreds of ANC supporters sang struggle songs and formed groups while they waited for the celebrations to begin.President Zuma is attending the gathering and will address the supporters.#ZumaBirthDay WATCH supporters as they pay for President Zuma. CM pic.twitter.com/vQQYD7hWee#ZumaBirthday Gogo&#39;s tell me &quot;We will fight for Zuma not to fall. He gives us social grants&quot; CM pic.twitter.com/bjJ2w06UzdANC Youth League (ANCYL) and ANC Women s League (ANCWL) leaders also arrived.This supporter says they are there to show support for the president. Happy birthday Jacob Zuma... Zuma must not fall. We want him around for many years because he pays us we have social grants and free education. The ANC is fighting. #ZumaBirthday President arrives with wife Thobeka Mandela Zuma. Cheers from crowd. CM pic.twitter.com/C8uxNZNMs6Meanwhile, NEC member Nomvula Mokonyane has advised the president not to pay attention to marches against him - but focus on building the country.Mokonyane shared her message for the president during - what even ANC leaders say - is a difficult time for him. The president must remain focused and lead, not only members of the ANC, but also the people of South Africa. This is an indication of what comes with the job of being a leader. But there was no sign of Secretary General Gwede Mantashe and Treasurer General Zweli Mkhize, who previously disagreed with the president publicly. ANCWL, ANCYL and the MKMVA leaders are there along with ANC supporters, some of whom have come from Mpumalanga and the North West.(Edited by Zamangwane Shange)