Give me soft sands that can massage my feet and go in between my tiny toes, crisp blue seas and warm blue skies; that is my ideal vacation. All the time.When I thought of Cape Town as a holiday destination I always thought meh . Yes, there is a beach but what else can you do in Cape Town? I recently went there and let me tell you something: there is an abundance of activities!First of all, you want to stay in the city centre so that you are somewhat close to everything. I lived my best life while I was there maybe I should relocate to the Mother City (American accent).Below is a brief description of the activities I indulged in:Day one: Around the city on Harley Davidson motorbikesWhat a lovely way to see the Mother City. I must admit I was scared of falling off the bike, but there I was, collecting evidence that I was one of the cool kids; holding up my phone taking pictures, videos and selfies. We went from the CBD to Hout Bay and all the way up to Chapman s Peak. What a beauty! On these bikes, you don t only see the place but you smell the ocean breeze, the fresh air, the colossus that is the mountain and the pretty houses. Going through Cape Town on Harley Davidson motorbikes. Beautiful way to see the cityA post shared by Eyewitness News (@ewnupdates) on Mar 28, 2017 at 8:30am PDTDay two: Cape Town Helicopters tour to the WinelandsA breathtaking view from above! Allow me to, just this once, be like a sheep and imitate people on social media who like to say Look at gawd! that is normally used to appreciate and compliment beauty. How can we not compliment the beauty that is Cape Town. The tour in the helicopter was amazingly stunning. The tour felt like a rollercoaster ride for adults; sophisticated twists, turns and twirls. Beautiful People, I have officially taken over the @shotleft IG / Story page. Come on a journey with me as I experience #CPT in the most unique way ever. Check out my IG story as well as the @shotleft IG story this week as we count down to the #CTIJF2017 #EpicTimes #AfricaForLife #TIA #Filmmaker #GoTime #BrokenVowsComingSoon #AfriCAN A post shared by Thapelo Mokoena (@mokoenalive) on Mar 29, 2017 at 8:48am PDTDay three: ParaglidingFor those who are afraid of heights, I advise you to definitely do this! I was so nervous before the launch that I was shaking and taking deep breathes but it was worth it. You start by taking big steps with your pilot then you run towards the cliff of the mountain and then the power of the wind takes you to the majestic skies. [VIDEO] Taking to the skies of Cape Town off Signal Hill to Sea Point. #ShotLeft #capetownA post shared by Eyewitness News (@ewnupdates) on Mar 30, 2017 at 7:53am PDTDay 4 &amp; 5 Cape Town International Jazz FestivalI am in my late twenties and my friends don t like jazz because they say it s for old people (maybe I need new friends). Anyway, I love jazz, but that has not always been the case. I grew up listening to jazz courtesy of my parents. I didn t like it. I went through my rebellious years (teen years) listening to metal rock, punk, rap and pop. In my university years, I fell in love with jazz because it reminded me of home and parents. Whenever I missed them, I would play it and thus fell in love. The highlights of the jazz festival were Jonas Gwangwa, Tshepo Tshola, Judith Sephuma and Kamasi Washington. This festival is unique to Cape Town and hosts both local and international talent. Being at such a festival, I saw people sing and dance. It was as if they were taken on a spiritual journey by the likes of Gwangwa and Kamasi Washington. The singing along and screams of joy would make you realise how special music is and what an important role it plays in our lives.Day 6: Langa Township tour on bicycles and sunset cruise on the 'Mirage 760'Always save the best for last. What an experience! We toured the township of Langa on bicycles and it has so much rich history. We were taken to various places of historical and cultural significance, places like the Gugulethu Seven Memorial and Brenda Fassie s home. Langa was such an eye opener for me because of the untold history that the place holds. What a way to finish off the trip by taking to the Cape seas on the Mirage 760. The sun was setting, the weather was breezy and the bubbles in my glass were inviting. I thought to myself: Why can t life be this easy? It was a bit chilly but I couldn t feel the chill, all I could do was bask in the beautiful sky and blue sea.On this trip, I met many people. People different from me, from different places and with different backgrounds. I learnt a lot in terms of how people grew up and how they see life, what they thought of the problems our society faces like racism, poverty and urgh politics! It is always eye-opening to hear different views on current issues. That is what travelling does, it opens your eyes, it gives you a world view. The word beauty , in terms of people and places, means a lot more. Travelling makes you appreciative of life. While on this trip, I thought a lot about my family; my parents, my siblings, my aunts and uncles. It seemed possible for me to take my entire family on a trip, even if it s not Cape Town, but somewhere in our beautiful country.It is because of financial strains that we don t travel. We want to but our bank accounts ask To where? Your backyard? I think the Tourism Department needs to look at ways of not only encouraging people to travel locally but to help travel become more affordable. Maybe give pensioners, especially from previously disadvantaged backgrounds, some kind of discount. Sometimes we let life get in the way and we don t make time to travel. It takes budgeting and putting away money. Even if you travel to Warmbaths or the Kruger National Park in the Limpopo province, it s about getting out and exposing yourself to life. Travelling has not only changed my life but has made me an active participant in my life.Refilwe Pitjeng is EWN s social media producer and you can follow her on Twitter @refsheric.