Domingo, who was appointed in 2013 after the surprise decision of Gary Kirsten to step down, has had two extensions of his contract and needs to reapply for the soon to be vacant head coach position. JOHANNESBURG - Russell Domingo says time away from the game has given him some clarity regarding his future at Cricket South Africa.Domingo, who was appointed in 2013 after the surprise decision of Gary Kirsten to step down, has had two extensions of his contract and needs to reapply for the soon to be vacant head coach position.Domingo has made it clear he would like to stay on as coach.&quot;The processes need to take place and I need to find out what that process is. I've loved my four years with the national side; it's any coach's dream to be involved with the national side. It's any coach's dream to have an opportunity to try and win a World Cup and I've had one opportunity to do it with the 50-over World Cup and came pretty close. If I'm fortunate I'd love to have another opportunity to do it but that's not in my control, unfortunately.&quot;Following the Proteas' successful tour of New Zealand, Domingo took some time away from the game. He says if he can't stay on as the coach of the Proteas, he would still be keen on other possible roles.&quot;Whether I do throw my name in the hat is not really that important. It's the process that needs to take place that's more important. I know what I'd like to do and where I'd like to be and I'de like to be involved with South African cricket, whether it's with the national side, the academy side, the franchise side... my passion is South African cricket and that's where I'd like to stay.&quot;On Thursday, the Proteas 15-man squad to take part in the upcoming Champions Trophy was announced.Keshav Maharaj has been called up to the squad. It's the left arm spinners' maiden ODI call up.Morne Morkel makes a return to the side after being out for nearly 10 months.Domingo says there will be some selection headches to deal with, although that has to be seen as a positive.&quot;The blessing for us is that we've got three warmup games where we will try and play each player and try different combinations to make sure everyone gets game time and try and find ways of fitting in the different combinations in the different conditions.&quot;The squad will depart for England on 16 May and will play three ODIs against England before their first group game on 3 June.