Save South Africa will apply for an urgent interdict to obtain permission to march to the Union Buildings. JOHANNESBURG - The Tshwane Metro Police Department (TMPD) says the South African Communist Party (SACP) and Save South Africa's applications for permission to march to the Union Buildings have not been granted.TMPD officials say the organisers have not met certain requirements, and have not submitted the relevant documents.Save SA members have been occupying Church Square in Pretoria since President Jacob Zuma announced a Cabinet reshuffle late last Thursday, firing five ministers and two deputy ministers, including Pravin Gordhan, his deputy Mcebisi Jonas, Derek Hanekom, Dipuo Peters, Ngoako Ramatlhodi and Tina Joemat-Pettersson.The SACP is planning to gather in Marabastad at 9am before marching to the National Treasury, close to Church Square. The SACP demonstrators are then expected to make their way to the Union Buildings.Save SA says it will begin marching to the Union Buildings at 10am. Other organisations, including the Organisation Undoing Tax Abuse (Outa), are also planning to march to the seat of government where they will meet the Save SA.But all of this hinges on these groups getting the necessary permission from the police and metro police.Save SA has now approached the chief magistrate, launching an urgent interdict to have the TMPD's decision overturned.The TMPD s Isaac Mahamba says they had given both organisations until 4pm to submit outstanding papers. He adds that the documents were never received.Mahamba says the organisations have not received permission from the treasury department or the union buildings. They committed that they will deliver these letters before 9am; we gave them time until 4pm this afternoon and that never happened by on Thursday afternoon indicating that they didn t comply, hence we are declaring the march illegal. Save SA'S Mark Heywood says they could not get a straight answer from the department regarding their application to march in the CBD. They had been giving us the run-around all day as to what exactly they considered to be outstanding. One of the things they say was outstanding was the authorisation from the presidency to gather, at the end of the march, on the lawns of the Union Buildings. Heywood has called on people not to change their plan, saying they are approaching the courts. I don t think we can be faulted; I am just worried what is behind this. We will get to the bottom of that. The organisation says it will now be approaching the chief magistrate this evening to gain permission for the march.At the same time, Tshwane mayor Solly Msimanga has tweeted that the City has not denied permission for Friday's march. He claims someone who's ill-disciplined is busy playing politics using their administration position.We haven&#39;t denied permission for tomorrow&#39;s march. Someone who&#39;s ill-disciplined is busy playing politics using their admin position.Meanwhile, OUTA has released a statement saying tomorrow's gathering at Church Square will go ahead: &quot;Whilst the civil society action groups work on getting the necessary approvals to march onto the union buildings, in Pretoria on Friday 7th April, the protest gathering at Church Square from 09h00 will still be taking place and permission has been granted for this to happen. The only issue still being addressed and seeking legal approval, is the march to the Union Buildings. By tomorrow morning we will know what is happening with the march element, but the show of solidarity will still take place in Church Square and civil society leaders will be speaking on stage at that venue.&quot;Click here to see a list of protests planned for Friday.(Edited by Masechaba Sefularo)