The power utility says its reluctant to cut power to affected municipalities but has little choice because of mounting debt. JOHANNESBURG - Eskom says consumers who are unhappy with the way their municipalities are run should turn to the courts to hold them accountable. The High Court in Pretoria on Thursday dismissed an application by civil rights group AfriForum to stop the power utility from cutting electricity supply to eight non-paying municipalities. AfriForum had argued that residents should not be punished for the failures of their councils.The court found that Eskom was legally entitled to cut the power to a consumer if the bills were not being paid.Eskom s Matshela Koko says they are reluctant to cut power to the affected municipalities, but they have little choice because of mounting debt. It s your constitutional right. When your constitutional right or any of your constitutional rights are infringed upon, you have got recourse to the local courts and you do that to hold the municipalities to account. AfriForum s Marcus Pawson says they recognise the position Eskom finds itself in. We do sympathise with Eskom. The real culprits are the municipal managers; the municipal managers, the municipalities, the councils and the decisions they have taken financially that the people of South Africa now have to bear the brunt of. Eskom will start turning off the lights if the debt is not settled by Tuesday.In the meantime Afiforum says it's going back to the drawing board to reconsider its position.Pawson says they may have to reconsider how they present their case but firmly believe ratepayers shouldn t be punished for poorly managed municipalities. We just have to go back to the drawing board to see where our arguments were lacking, where we can assist the community members as we are here for those people out there, especially in the Free State who are going to bear the brunt of the decision. Koko says they re ready for the next legal challenge. We have always known that we have got rights to collect our revenue. We need it and whether you agree with it or not, there is a matter that is set out to deal with that but we have the right to collect our electricity. AfriForum s main application will be heard in March. (Edited by Neo Koza)