As concerns mount that the leadership contest could lead to splits in the ANC, Cyril Ramaphosa says this will have to be discussed. DAVOS - Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa says that the African National Congress s (ANC) December conference may need to discuss how to change the way the party elects leaders.He also says important agreements have now been reached with business government and labour that will promote economic growth this year.Ramaphosa is currently in Davos for the World Economic Forum meeting.As concerns mount that this year s leadership contest could lead to splits in the ANC, Ramaphosa says this will have to be discussed in December. Clearly things of change or whatever will need to be looked at by the conference and the conference may well want to discuss that. But he says the way this contest is run cannot be changed before then. For now we have to stick to what has been decided, we have to stick to the rules and the conventions that have been established over generations and generations. The deputy president also says he s sticking to the national working committee s ruling that people must not name the names of candidates they ll support at the end of the year.WATCH: Ramaphosa: 'Less turbulence, but lower growth' for SA's economy in 2017Ramaphosa says the ANC s leadership contest will have a good outcome but won t say if he ll be running himself.Earlier this week the ANC s national working committee said party members should not discuss the names of who they would support before the June policy conference.The deputy president says he s not worried about how the December conference will end. We are ANC. We will be able to abide by the rules and we will have a really good outcome out of the process of electing new leaders. I have no doubt about it. He was then asked to put his no comment about whether he ll run on the record I have said we ve got to stick by the rules that have been set by the national working committee so no comment. Ramaphosa seemed cool and confident but wasn t going to be drawn on the ANC s internal politics.