The Gauteng Province remains in the top three nationwide with an 87% matric pass rate. JOHANNESBURG There's good news for the vast majority of matric pupils in Gauteng getting their results this morning with the province remaining in the top three nationwide with an 87% matric pass rate. Nationally, the class of 2016 achieved a 72.5% pass rate that includes progressed learners.Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga officially released the results in Midrand on Wednesday night.The Free State achieved the highest pass rate of all with over 93% of pupils passing, but the minister says Gauteng and the North West also did well. North West is 86.2% which has an increase of 9%, Gauteng attained 87% which is an increase of 1.1% Motshekga says while much more needs to be done in the delivery of quality education in the country the results of the class of 2016 show patterns of growth.She says despite notable improvements in South Africa s education system much more needs to be done especially in the area of efficiency and quality. We still have a long way to go. We must agree that much has been achieved. Much more needs to be done. She however says the interventions that her department has put in place is starting bear fruits. So the first report reveals that since the advent of democracy more learners remain in school up to grade 12, in this regard South Africa does well. The minister says rural schools which previously underperformed are progressing and making important contributions in the improvement of mathematics and science.Meanwhile Gauteng Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi will officially announce the provinces' matric results and honour top achievers at a ceremony in Daveyton on the East Rand on Thursday morning.Parents and top achievers in Gauteng are starting to arrive for the ceremony. The top achieving schools will also be announced this morning.WATCH: 76.2% pass rate for the matric class of 2016PRETORIA MATRICSElated matriculants at Waterkloof High School in Pretoria have described sleepless nights and relief after receiving their final marks. The school is historically one of the top performing schools in the province having achieved a 100% pass rate for nearly three decades. For many matrics, the anxiety of waiting to receive their marks kept them up all night.One pupil says, I went to bed at 1 o clock and I stood up at four to wait for the newspapers. It was stressful. But in the end there was relief and excitement. I feel great about it. I passed with flying colours so it s cool. With senior certificates in hand, they re now looking to the future and their next adventure as young adults.To get your 2016 matric results go to EWN s special matric results page.Share the page with your friends.