Premier David Makhura has sent his condolences to the families of those who died in the head-on collision. JOHANNESBURG In the wake of yesterday s taxi accident north of Pretoria that killed 16 people, the Gauteng Premier has called on motorists to take extra care on the roads during the current rainy weather. Premier David Makhura has sent his condolences to the families of those who died in the head-on collision.Among the victims were six children under the age of 10. The Premier s spokesperson Phumla Sekonyane says, Gauteng has experienced heavy rainfall in the past three days and there has been several road accidents that have been reported from the various parts of the province, and the Premier has urged the motorists to drive carefully. At the same time, one person remains in a critical condition in hospital following the accident.The patient is one of only two people who survived the crash.Netcare 911 s Athlenda Mathe said the cause of the accident is still unclear. There are only two survivors in this accident, one is in a critical condition while the other sustained moderate injuries. The two were stabilized on scene and then thereafter transported to hospital. The road was opened to traffic this morning after it was closed for several hours last night.Johannesburg Emergency Services have urged motorists to drive carefully as the wet weather continues in Gauteng.Yesterday, police reported an unusually high number of accidents in Johannesburg due to the heavy rainfall.Meanwhile, Emergency Services say their teams will remain on high alert to deal with any flash floods caused by heavy rains that continue to fall across the province.The South African Weather Service says there s an up to 80% chance of rain in some parts of Gauteng today.Emergency Services Robert Mulaudzi said a number of emergency calls have already been made.He s urged motorists to be extra vigilant. We ll remain on high alert to make sure that if there s any incident which might occur we can be able to respond as quickly as possible. Of course in those critical areas, especially the low lying areas, we ve got our automatic reinforce systems which assist us to disseminate information and also monitor the rainfall patterns. 