The ANC says Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga doesn&#8217;t seem to understand how his trip to Taipei damaged South Africa&#8217;s reputation. JOHANNESBURG The Democratic Alliance (DA) says the African National Congress (ANC) has shown how little it values job-creating investment in South Africa with its attack on Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga over his visit to Taiwan.The opposition party says, with 9 million jobless South Africans, the attempt by Mayor Msimanga to try and encourage investment in the country should be praised instead of condemned.The ANC says Msimanga doesn t seem to understand how his trip to Taipei damaged South Africa s reputation and therefore the Department of International Relations must take away his passport.The ruling party s Zizi Kodwa says that by visiting Taiwan, Msimanga transgressed foreign policy with respect to diplomatic ties with China. Taiwan historically is one country that has relations with apartheid South Africa, and it s that relation that prolonged the white rule in South Africa. But beyond that, many other countries have de-recognised Taiwan and it s important for Msimanga to appreciate how his actions have damaged South Africa internationally. But the DA s shadow Minister of International Relations Stevens Mokgalapa says neither the ANC nor the national government should dictate who DA mayors meet with in order to obtain job-creating investment. We feel that the ANC s statement is quite reckless and doesn t care about 9 million people who are jobless. At the same time, the Centre for Constitutional Rights says the state doesn t have the right to confiscate someone s passport after the ANC urged the International Relations Department to do so if someone violates the country s foreign policy.The ruling party says his trip violated South Africa s One China Policy and Msimanga apparently didn t have a political mandate to visit the country.Kodwa says action must be taken. If we allow this to happen it will create problems in terms of certainty on South Africa s foreign policy, which will undermine the reputation we ve internationally. But the centre s Phephelaphi Dube says government can t take away someone s passport. The government is not in a position to simply take away one s passport. It raises quite interesting questions about intergovernmental relations and cooperative governance. (Edited by Leeto M Khoza)