ANC spokesperson Zizi Kodwa denies that the party owes Sihle Bolani money for working on an alleged covert campaign against opposition parties. JOHANNESBURG The African National Congress (ANC) says it did not employ Sihle Bolani to be a part of a covert campaign against opposition parties, which it will prove in court she has no claim against them and that it's always run clean elections campaigns.On Tuesday morning, the amaBhungane Centre for Investigative Journalism quoted from legal papers submitted by Bolani, in which she claims she was told that she was a part of a R50 million operation to discredit opposition parties and to create content for the TV programme The Right to Vote with Pearl Thusi.Bolani's court action was struck from the roll on Tuesday morning, as a judge said it was not urgent.The Gupta family has recently been accused of creating fake Twitter accounts to discredit their opponents and journalists who report on them.The ANC s Zizi Kodwa says Bolani does not have a case against the party. We will prove on merit that she has never done any work for the ANC. The ANC have always run a clean campaign. But the party s general manager Ignatius Jacobs submitted a document in which he admitted offering Bolani money and saying that the dispute arose because they believed she had volunteered her services.Kodwa says this document was just to avoid having to go to court. He wanted to avoid an issue of litigation where the party, because at that time she threatened that she wanted to be paid on the basis of work she couldn t prove [she'd done]. In her papers, Bolani says that former ANC Youth League official Shaka Sisulu was a driving force behind this plan, he hasn't yet commented.Meanwhile, Bolani has said she went to court on Tuesday, because she had no other choice. She is adamant that she was supposed to be paid for working on the ANC's campaign. I did work on behalf of the ANC. I was brought on board by two people, who were acting as agents of the ANC, to be part of the municipal election campaign in 2016. (Edited by Masechaba Sefularo)