The area was swept by violent protests last year which halted schooling for over three months. JOHANNESBURG - There's joy, relief and in some cases disappointment this morning among the class of 2016 as matriculants across the country finally receive their national senior certificate exam results.On Wednesday evening, Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga announced that the class of 2016 achieved a 72.5% pass rate, a slight increase from the previous year's 70.7%.In Limpopo there have been scenes of relief in Vuwani where many pupils from the class of 2016 got up early to find out from newspapers how they fared. The area was swept by violent protests last year which halted schooling for over three months.Thirty schools were burnt or vandalised in the process.They obtained their results together with many of the rest of the country's pupils on Thursday morning and some are pleased they made it, despite the violent protests that disrupted much of the school year.Matriculant, Khangale Ndifelani is relieved. He says Even if there was some violence, I didn t care at all about it. All I cared about was getting good results. Some pupils say they will now turn their attention to furthering their studies at tertiary institutions.Karabo Moremi from Dendron Secondary School in Limpopo was among the country's top achievers.He says he's relieved that his hard work has paid off. Well, I feel really blessed and humbled, and feel that my hard work paid off. I studied well in advance and I made sure that I consulted my teachers if I didn t understand. #Vuwani Matric pupils have received their results. Some excitement as others now aim for furthering their studies at tertiary. PP pic.twitter.com/zbmUUwxHjZPupils from different schools in Vuwani have been gathering at their schools since early this morning waiting anxiously to see their results.At the school worst affected by last year's violence, Vhafamade Secondary, matriculants are standing in groups, talking about how well they did against all odds.Four blocks of the school including an administrative one were torched during the protests, sending some of their records up in flames.The school received several donations to help it rebuild and the new structures are expected to be in use from next week.To get your 2016 IEB matric results go to EWN s special matric results page. Share the page with your friends.(Edited by Neo Koza)