Global analysts suggest that the current state of international relations is volatile and South Africa is part of the problem. JOHANNESBURG Global analysts Eurasia Group has released an overview of 10 political events that it believes will lead to a breakdown in international relations and foreign policy, listing South Africa s so-called political crisis as cause for concern.The group suggests the controversy surrounding President Jacob Zuma and the African National Congress will only worsen in 2017, putting the country s economy at greater risk as well as damaging regional stability.In an article written by US political analysts Ian Bremmer and Cliff Kupchan, the two predict that the ANC s refusal to remove Zuma from power may influence more than just the country's traditional role as a force for regional security .Its states, Having come under unprecedented fire in late 2016, the president will be even less inclined to accept a compromise candidate to take his place when he retires as ANC leader at the end of the year. Instead, Zuma will push for his wife, Nkosazana Clarice Dlamini-Zuma, or David Mabuza, a regional premier and political ally. Jockeying in the months leading up to this shuffle will also prevent reformers, particularly Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan, from implementing policy. Reform of the country's labor market, state-owned enterprises, and energy sector will remain all but out of reach, and it will become ever harder for Pretoria to avoid a credit rating downgrade. Eurasia has named 2017 the year of geopolitical recession, and says this year presents us with the most volatile political risk environment in the post-war period, not withholding the economic recession in 2008.WATCH: Top risks 2017 - The global recessionWith America s president-elect Donald Trump at the fore, here is the top 10 list of global political affairs which according to Eurasia signal the G-zero world a world with no global leader:Trump's &quot;America first&quot; philosophy.China's scheduled leadership transition.Disputes over Brexit.A lack of leadership on issues, as political officials in both developed and emerging economies avoid structural reform, undermining prospects for growth and new opportunities for investors.Technology and the Middle East - Technology, a force for economic growth and efficiency, also exacerbates political instability. In the Middle East, the latter outcome is proving dominant for several reasons.Central Banks face political attack. For the first time in decades, central banks face attack not just in emerging markets but in the US, the eurozone, and the UK.The White House vs Silicon ValleyJuly's failed coup in Turkey. This has introduced greater political uncertainty and economic volatility in the country.North Korea and the advancement of its nuclear and missile programmes.South Africa s political crisis Click here to access the full reportSA ANALYST: WE HAVE SEEN THE WORST OF OUR POLITICAL SITUATION ALREADY Professor Yolanda Spies, an international analyst at the University of Johannesburg, says while the report should be taken seriously and will influence global perceptions, it is flawed. She says she does not agree with the ranking. I do find a lot of fact in what they say, but when you look at this in a global context there is no way that our situation is the tenth most risky developing issue in the world. &quot;They, for example, ignore recent events in Brazil. Brazil is a key player in international relations and it has seen significant downgrading of its own global normative entrepreneurship. They ignore so many other factors involved in ongoing wars and instability in the world. Spies does, however, admit that South Africa has slipped in its ability to anchor political and economic stability in Southern Africa. It is not necessarily negative if we are no longer as hegemonic in Africa as we used to be, we have seen so many parts of Africa that are becoming more confident, more stable, not because of South Africa s mediation and leadership, but despite South Africa s problems. I am quite proud of that. When you read our foreign policy, it wants the African agenda to be triumphant. She also says while there are issues surrounding the ruling party and its internal struggles, there is much to be positive about. We have been through a tough year and we saw how resilient our democratic institutions are. We do have a problem in the person of our president, but that is being dealt with at so many different levels. Yes, we are going to see some uncertainty surrounding the leadership battle, but I don t think we have anything to fear. We have seen the worst of our political situation already, and that our institutions are surviving the agency of individuals. 