City officials have issued a renewed warning to residents to be cautious with open flames and other flammable materials. CAPE TOWN - City of Cape Town firefighters have responded to an average of 75 fires per day in the past three months.Officials have issued a renewed warning to residents to be cautious with open flames and other flammable materials.This comes in the wake of firefighters battling several fires in and around the city over the past two weeks.#PaarlFire 2 Helicopters are assisting the more than 200 firefighters to contain the blaze. IM pic.twitter.com/J3cVMqCjF8The city's Fire and Rescue Service has responded to more than 5,400 fire incidents since November last year.Large scale damage as a result of the Helderberg fires in Somerset West two weeks ago, is estimated at R60 million, while Monday night's blaze in the Vredehoek/Deer Park area caused damage estimated at about R4.5 million.#VredehoekFires Thick smoke hangs in the air. LI pic.twitter.com/3yEOq8t2X4Mayco Member for Social Services and Safety JP Smith says authorities have the situation under control, but he's called for residents support. The public will have to work with us on this matter and we re and we ask them to remind themselves of the safety tips around fires, to be cautious of cigarette buds. &quot;And remember that the use of fireworks around public places is unlawful. Authorities have also fought major fires in Paarl and Grabouw in the past 12 hours.Meanwhile, firefighting efforts are continuing in the Grabouw.Overberg Disaster Management spokesperson Rynhardt Geldenhuys says a helicopter has been deployed in a bid to contain a fire threatening to move in the direction of the Pineview informal settlement. There s a still a large area, about 45 hectares, burning. This is veld plantation so it s plants burning, creating lot of smoke in the area. We re still trying to contain that and making sure that there s no further risks to structures. Officials in the Paarl area say that strong winds intensified firefighting efforts in the Du Toitskloof Pass area.About 137 people had been evacuated earlier on Tuesday as a result of the blaze. Chief Fire Officer at the Drakenstein Municipality Derick Damons says: Over the extent of the area, there are a number of hotspots. We will continue for the next 24 to 36 hours to do mopping up, damping down and extinguishing those hotspots. Billows of smoke from the Grabouw area are being fanned by strong winds in the direction of the city.City of Cape Town fire and rescue services says fires in the metropolitan are under control. (Edited by Zamangwane Shange)