Mashaba&#8217;s legal representative Claudio Bollo has told EWN Sport that his client is looking to be reinstated. JOHANNESBURG Shakes Mashaba has intensified his battle with the South African Football Association (Safa) by taking his dismissal to the CCMA to stop the association from hiring his replacement.Mashaba was sacked in December after he was found guilty of gross misconduct, following his public outburst on national TV despite his team beating Senegal in the World Cup qualifiers.Mashaba s legal representative Claudio Bollo has told EWN Sport that his client is looking to be reinstated. One can always come to a financial statement of any kind, no matter how unpleasant or pleasant the case may be, but first prize remains to be allowed to honour the contract as he was doing, as he always did do, doing his job to the fullest, to the extent that one can do. And at this particular [time] he had done a very successful [job] giving them the results. Bollo says that his client wants to see out his World Cup mandate. He wants to get back into it because for a coach of a national side as you d imagine any coach in the world to be, a coach of your national team in the world cup is the pinnacle for anybody. That s the dream come true that anyone will preserve. He says his client s relationship with Safa wasn t severed. First of all we don t believe there has been any breakdown in the relationship and we don t think any such breakdown had been shown. But secondly a coach as we read it, is someone who needs to have very good rapport with his players and the respect of the dressing room, a very good rapport with his backroom staff, assistant coaches and the like, all of which are present in this case.&quot;Bollo says the matter should be resolved well in time for the team to prepare for their qualifiers against Cape Verde in August. The preparation for the August World Cup qualifier will happen much closer to the time, so there s ample time in our submission for this dispute to play itself out. If the coach is found to be right, then he s right to continue to comply and his contract should be respected. 