While the British star has previously hosted the Tony awards, he thinks the Grammys will be a very different presenting job. LONDON - James Corden wants the Grammy Awards to be as “fun and enthusiastic” as possible but insists he won’t be looking for laughs as host. The 38-year-old presenter - who has children Max, five, and Carey, two, with wife Julia - is determined to make the musical honours ceremony as “fun and enthusiastic” as possible, but doesn’t think it is the right occasion to showcase his comedic side. He said: “The truth is, it’s quite a tough room to do jokes in. You can’t really do comedy because it’s the Staples Centre - it’s not that sort of show. Rather than try and think of jokes or laughs, we’re gonna try and think about how to make it fun and enthusiastic. I feel very nervous about it, very scared, but I’m gonna try and make it the best I can!” While the British star has previously hosted the Tony awards, he thinks the Grammys will be a very different presenting job. He said: “The Tonys is a more traditional hosting job; with the Grammys, you’re not in the show that much, just ushering stuff around. But we’re gonna try to make it as fun as a possible.” Corden is best known for the popular Carpool Karaoke feature - where famous stars sing along to their greatest hits while driving along with the host - on his Late Late Show and despite the fact the audience at the Grammys will be largely made up of musicians, he insists they won’t be able to use the segment at the ceremony because they are so complicated. He explained to People magazine: “They take so long to film, they take a long time to edit, and there’s never been one that’s been shorter than six minutes, so there just really isn’t the time!” Corden has worked with a lot of famous musicians, including Madonna, Justin Bieber, Adele, and Mariah Carey, on The Late Late Show and he hopes the Grammys will bring him one step closer to someone he’s been desperate to meet for some time. He said: “I’ve never met Beyoncé. I don’t know if I’ll get to, but hopefully!”