Advocate Gerrie Nel says he would never undermine his integrity developed as a prosecutor over more than three decades. CENTURION - Advocate Gerrie Nel has dismissed concerns that his move to lobby group AfriForum is to pursue a political agenda, saying he would never undermine his integrity developed as a prosecutor over three decades. The organisation announced on Tuesday that starting on Wednesday, Nel would lead its new private prosecuting unit. The respected prosecutor submitted a 24-hour notice of resignation to the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) on Monday.Nel recently convicted Paralympian Oscar Pistorius of murder, but shot to prominence about a decade ago when he prosecuted the late former national police commissioner Jackie Selebi. Known as the 'pitbull' for his aggressive line of questioning in court, Nel says his departure from the NPA was driven by the belief that everyone should be equal before the law. I ve not had a single question about my political affiliation, at any discussions with the AfriForum. I ve never had a political agenda and I don t have one now. Nel says their work will speak for itself and will be subject to public scrutiny. If we do anything wrong or think we have some other agenda; challenge us. Nel says he should be judged by the work he has done as a prosecutor over more than three decades. I ve build up an integrity that I m proud of over the period 36 years. I won t sell my integrity and do something that I don t believe in. Nel s first task is to assemble a team of experts before assessing which cases to peruse. UNIT WILL BENEFIT ALL SOUTH AFRICANS AfriForum meanwhile says the establishment of a private prosecuting unit will benefit all South Africans and downplayed concerns that it is to pursue a narrow agenda to benefit Afrikaners.The lobby group's Kallie Kriel says he is aware of perceptions that the organisation acts solely on the interests of Afrikaners, and cited cases such as the recent Eskom application to demonstrate otherwise. Most of our work is in the interest of all South Africans and therefore I fail to see why people can be negative about this. We re trying to make sure that there is equality before the law and that people are held accountable. (Edited by Zamangwane Shange)