CSA announced that their recruitment process for a new coach is underway and that Proteas coach Russell Domingo is welcome to re-apply. CAPE TOWN Former Proteas batsman and current Cape Cobras coach Ashwell Prince believes South African head coach Russell Domingo should feel hard done by Cricket South Africa (CSA).CSA released a statement on Saturday after the Proteas ODI victory over Sri Lanka, stating their recruitment process for a new coach is underway as Domingo s contracts comes to an end after the tour to England in the middle of the year. Prince says he was disheartened to hear about the situation. For me, it s a massive surprise. You know, I feel quite sad to see that Russell is in that position. CSA have said that Domingo is welcome to apply for his current job. The decision comes as a surprise after Domingo has overcome a tough 2015/2016 season to record a Test series win against New Zealand, Sri Lanka and Australia, added to that a memorable 5-0 ODI series whitewash of Australia.Prince took over the Cape Cobras franchise at the turn of the year and has overseen a renaissance since, similar to what Domingo has achieved and from what he has seen, the Proteas camp is in good shape. Looking on and looking in, the environment looks great and this is the most important thing. If you look at the performances, there are different people stepping up all the time and putting up big performances in helping the team win. He added that Domingo deserves his due for recent results, especially after enduring a challenging period in the first half of 2016 when it seemed that his job was on the line as public confidence is his ability was at an all-time low. And that tells me somebody needs to get credit for creating that environment, where all the people feel confident and positive about their own game. And the credit must go to Russell! Lots of credit should go to Russel for that. Prince, who himself played over 60 Test matches for South Africa, believes that any coach in Domingo s position would have expected a different response from CSA altogether. I think any person, after those results, would expect the board to come to you with an offer of another two-year extension. I am sure, the last thing he was thinking is that they would be coming to him and saying you have to reapply for your job. So I am sure he d be disappointed by that. The Proteas take on Sri Lanka in their second ODI in Durban on Wednesday. They hold a 1-0 lead in the five-match series.