AB de Villiers and Chris Morris will return to the team after missing the Australia series last year. JOHANNESBURG - Cricket South Africa has announced the Proteas squad for the first three ODIs against Sri Lanka.AB de Villiers and Chris Morris will return to the team after missing the Australia series last year, while youngster Lungi Ngidi has received his first ODI call-up.Convener of selectors Linda Zondi says they have cover for the inexperienced players, should they fail to deliver.Zondi says they've introduced young players because they're starting to build for the 2019 World Cup. We're not building for the championship, we are building for 2019 World Cup. The focus for me is the 2019 World Cup and the championship is part of that. I am quite comfortable with where we're at. He adds says they're happy with the experience they have in the batting order and want the young guys to gain their experience now. We are quite solid in that area. It s unfortunate that most of our senior bowlers have been injured. In a way it gives us an opportunity to bring these guys through and they haven t disappointed us. Standard Bank Proteas ODI squad: AB de Villiers (Multiply Titans, capt), Hashim Amla (BuildNat Cape Cobras), Farhaan Behardien (Multiply Titans), Quinton de Kock (Multiply Titans), JP Duminy (BuildNat Cape Cobras), Faf du Plessis (Multiply Titans), Imran Tahir (Hollywoodbets Dolphins), David Miller (VKB Knights), Chris Morris (Multiply Titans), Wayne Parnell (BuildNat Cape Cobras), Lungi Ngidi (Multiply Titans), Andile Phehlukwayo (Hollywoodbets Dolphins), Dwaine Pretorius (bizhub Highveld Lions), Kagiso Rabada (bizhub Highveld Lions), Tabraiz Shamsi (Multiply Titans)Fixtures: Saturday, January 28, 1st Momentum ODI, St. George s Park, 10h00 Wednesday, February 1, 2nd Momentum ODI, Sahara Stadium Kingsmead, 13h30 Saturday, February 4, 3rd Momentum ODI, Bidvest Wanderers Stadium, 13h30 Tuesday, February 7, 4th Momentum ODI, PPC Newlands, 13h30 Friday, February 10, 5th Momentum ODI, SuperSport Park, 13h30