The ANC and DIRCO say Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga breached SA&#8217;s &#8220;One China Policy&#8221; by visiting Taiwan and insist he didn't have a political mandate for the trip. JOHANNESBURG The Presidency has weighed in on Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga s controversial trip to Taiwan saying foreign policy matters will be addressed soon.Msimanga returned to South Africa earlier this week after visiting Taipei to speak to its mayor about creating investment opportunities.But the African National Congress (ANC) and the International Relations Department say Msimanga breached South Africa s One China Policy by doing so and insist he didn't have a political mandate to visit the country.The Presidency has issued a statement saying it has noted the ongoing debate about Msimanga s trip to Taiwan, saying the issue of foreign policy will be discussed at the president s next coordinating council meeting.The council is a statutory forum in which the president meets the leadership of provincial and local government to share ideas and co-ordinate government programmes for the benefit of citizens.Its members haven t met since the local government elections and the Presidency insists that at the right time this issue, regarding foreign policy, will be addressed.Meanwhile, the ANC says Msimanaga s diplomatic passport should be confiscated because he doesn t realise the damage he s caused in terms of South Africa s relations with China.The Democratic Alliance says this is nothing more than politics and that Msimanga s actions were aimed at creating jobs for people in Tshwane. MSIMANGA SEEMS TO NOT UNDERSTAND The ANC says Msimanga doesn t seem to understand how his trip to Taipei damaged South Africa s reputation and therefore the Department of International Relations must take away his passport.The ruling party s Zizi Kodwa said that by visiting Taiwan, Msimanga transgressed foreign policy with respect to diplomatic ties with China. Taiwan historically is one country that has relations with apartheid South Africa, and it s that relation that prolonged the white rule in South Africa. But beyond that, many other countries have de-recognised Taiwan and it s important for Msimanga to appreciate how his actions have damaged South Africa internationally. But the DA s shadow Minister of International Relations Stevens Mokgalapa said neither the ANC nor the national government should dictate who DA mayors meet with in order to obtain job-creating investment. We feel that the ANC s statement is quite reckless and doesn t care about 9 million people who are jobless. At the same time, the Centre for Constitutional Rights says the state doesn t have the right to confiscate someone s passport after the ANC urged the International Relations Department to do so if someone violates the country s foreign policy.The ruling party says his trip violated South Africa s One China Policy and Msimanga apparently didn t have a political mandate to visit the country.Kodwa said action must be taken. If we allow this to happen it will create problems in terms of certainty on South Africa s foreign policy, which will undermine the reputation we ve internationally. But the centre s Phephelaphi Dube said that government can t take away someone s passport. The government is not in a position to simply take away one s passport. It raises quite interesting questions about intergovernmental relations and cooperative governance. (Edited by Leeto M Khoza)