The ‘Keeping Up With The Kardashians’ star is said to be close to Chyna as they share a common interest in making sure Rob Kardashian is ‘healthy and happy’. Blac Chyna reportedly has a “good relationship” with her future mother-in-law Kris Jenner as they are both focused on making sure Rob Kardashian is “healthy and happy”. The Keeping Up With The Kardashians star is said to be close to Chyna - who has two-month-old daughter Dream with Kris’ son Rob Kardashian - as they share a common interest in making sure Rob is "healthy and happy". A source said: "Chy and Kris have a good relationship. If she needs to vent or get advice she will call Kris and they talk it out. Both just want Rob to be healthy and happy." And Chyna, 28, has been a positive influence on Rob Kardashian’s battle to ditch the pounds as she is working on losing weight too after the birth of her daughter. The insider added to E! News: “Rob is starting to get active again with the help of Chyna. Rob and Chyna have been taking more hikes together lately so that’s been a positive step forward... She is definitely making progress [with her post-baby body], slowly, so she’s happy with any progress. She wants her tiny waist back how it looked before Dream. So when she gets there she’ll be happy.” It comes after Jenner admitted her son and Chyna’s relationship was a “work in progress”. Speaking about the couple - who got engaged after four months of dating - she shared: “You know, I think that, too, is a work in progress and they have good and bad days. “It’s a young relationship and they haven’t known each other for that long.” Chyna - who is celebrating her year anniversary with Kardashian - has been working hard on keeping fit following the birth of Dream and recently celebrated dropping an impressive 34 pounds in just two months. Sharing a picture of her scales on Snapchat, she wrote: "From 192.2 to 158.2." And Chyna credits breastfeeding for helping her ditch the weight. She explained: "I’ve been carrying a baby for 10 months, so I’m ready to hang out. "It’s not really scary to be away from Dream, because I have tons of help and I’m not that far. If I was in Paris of New York I would feel super uncomfortable right now. I’m just really breastfeeding because you have to wait six weeks until you work out. And I just started hiking with Rob so we’re back on our health tip, and I’m drinking a ton of water."