The ANC&#8217;s Jabu Mfusi says that Patricia De Lille had no choice but to step down as Democratic Alliance leader in the Western Cape. CAPE TOWN Democratic Alliance (DA) leader Mmusi Maimane has denied allegations Patricia De Lille was forced to resign as the party s provincial head.De Lille on Monday announced that she would step down on Tuesday to focus on her role as Cape Town mayor. Her resignation has sparked claims that she was pushed.The African National Congress (ANC) s Jabu Mfusi says De Lille had no choice but to step down. We re actually not surprised as the African National Congress by the resignation of Patricia de Lille. In fact, she did not resign voluntarily but she was forced. The African Christian Democratic Party s Grant Haskin backed the ANC s stance that De Lille was forced to quit as provincial party leader. She s been gunning for premier of the Western Cape for the last couple of years and this is basically a victory for the DA old guard over an ID takeover. De Lille says increasing demands on her as Cape Town mayor prompted her to resign as DA provincial leader.She says the municipality is taking a new direction in addressing inequality through improved service delivery.Mfusi said: You ve got all those tensions emanating within the DA and old guys who want to come back. Economic Freedom Fighters provincial chairperson Bernard Joseph said De Lille s departure is a sign of in-fighting in the DA.The African Christian Democratic Party s Grant Hashkin says De Lille s ambitions to become premier led to the move.But Maimane said De Lille s decision is in the best interest of the City of Cape Town.Maimane insists De Lille has not been forced to resign. There s no validity to their argument, there s no truth, there s no basis and in fact, it is quite disarming when you say to a black South African who is a leader in government and we want her to focus on other government departments - that it is suddenly seen as a demotion. (Edited by Leeto M Khoza)