The 449km racing stage started at an altitude near 3,000 metres, but later dropped down to 1,000 metres above sea level. SAN JUAN, ARGENTINA Toyota Gazoo experienced a tough Stage 10 on Dakar 2017, as the crews faced the iconic race from Chilecito to San Juan. The 449km racing stage started at an altitude near 3,000m, but later dropped down to 1,000m above sea level. This may have suited the Toyota Hilux race vehicles, but problems with navigation cost Nani Roma and Alex Haro time, while punctures put paid to Giniel de Villiers and Dirk von Zitzewitz charge.Toyota Gazoo Racing SA Team Principal, Glyn Hall said: It was an extremely long and demanding stage. It started at high altitude, then dropped down much lower. This should have suited our vehicles, but unfortunately we had some problems that held both Giniel and Nani up. De Villiers and Von Zitzewitz initially lost some time due to a small navigational error, and then maintained their position on the road. Unfortunately a slow puncture starting about 100km from the end of the first section of the stage robbed them of a better result and then things got worse.De Villiers: We suffered another puncture near the end of the stage, and decided to push on regardless. But in the end the tyre disintegrated, and we ended up finishing the stage on the wheel rim, it was the right decision as changing a wheel would have taken longer. De Villiers manage to restrict his time loss on Stage 10 to 15:20, despite the woes with the punctures. This places him in fifth position overall, some 42 minutes behind fellow Toyota Hilux driver, Nani Roma, in fourth.Dakar 2017 has now well and truly returned to lower altitudes, as well as higher temperatures. Stage 10 was run in temperatures over 40 degrees Celsius, and this trend is set to continue as the crews brave Stage 11, from San Juan to Rio Cuarto. This will be the final stern test of the 2017 edition of the world s toughest motor race.The stage comprises a racing section of 292km, and liaisons of 467km. Total distance for the day is 759km, but the racing stage is again split into two parts, with a long liaison in between.