Proteas fast bowler Kyle Abbott has announced that he has signed a Kolpak contract with English county Hampshire. CAPE TOWN - South Africa capped off another clinical performance today at Newlands after beating Sri Lanka by 282 runs.The Proteas made light work of the remaining 6 wickets this morning with Kagiso Rabada picking up the first 4 wickets. It also meant he got 10 in the match and walked away with the Man of the Match decision.Spinner Keshav Maharaj and Vernon Philander picked up the remaining wickets, which meant that the Proteas take an unassailable 2-0 series lead heading into the 3rd Test at the Wanderers.However, the big story of the day was the announcement that Kyle Abbott and Rilee Rossouw have signed Kolpak contracts with English county Hampshire.This means that they are not available for selection for South African for the foreseeable future.The story was leaked on Day 2 of the Test match and scuppered Abbott's plans to announce it at the end of the series with Sri Lanka.CSA were not aware of either player's intentions and chief executive Haroon Lorgat said he was disappointed at how it was managed.Abbott says his commitment to Cricket SA can't be questioned.&quot;If I wasn't committed I would have done this a long time ago. February will be four years and I don't think anyone can question my commitment to Cricket South Africa. The coaching staff at Cricket South Africa have never questioned it, so I don't see a reason why anyone else should. It is the place you want to be playing your cricket, don't get me wrong, you are tested day in and day out, mentally and physically.&quot;Abbott says the four-year contract provides him with security.&quot;It's four years of security and playing cricket is, I think, and incredibly insecure environment for anyone, so knowing that i have an income for the next four years is going to take me to nearly 34, is quite reassuring.&quot;Abbott says he is disappointed at how the story unfolded.&quot;I was pretty disappointed. Although it didnt affect the team in this Test match, I still had to come clean with them and be honest with them. It wasn't part of the plan. The plan was to announce it after the series, so the way it has unfolded put a spanner in the works.&quot;Cricket South Africa chief executive Haroon Lorgat says he feels let down by the way that Abbott and Rossouw have gone about their business.&quot;Personally, I am feeling that it would have been fair in the way that we operate with each other because there is a requirement on me or the officials to be transparent and it would be better if it were a two-way street.&quot;Lorgat says Abbott's contract has been terminated with immediate effect while Rossouw s contract will be cleared up in the next few days.&quot;I would like to interpret that maybe if we could turn the clock back, he would think otherwise. He was quite emotional and it is a significant decision in his life. He's got to look after his future but at the same time I don't think he wants to give up the right to play for South Africa, but that's what he's done. And as a consequence, we've terminated his contract.&quot;Proteas coach Russell Domingo says he spoke to Abbott about the decision a while back and never heard about it until recently.&quot;We didn't have the talk again until two days ago, so that's also been a disappointment for me. The whole thing has unfolded without any consulting or allowing us to pitch to him as to what we can offer, whether we can give him a two-year or three-year extension.&quot;