
                                            Cricket South Africa has announced that their financial standing remains healthy despite the postponement of the Global League T20 competition.
                                         JOHANNESBURG- South Africa’s Cricketing Governing body, Cricket South Africa, has announced that their financial standing remains healthy despite the postponement of the Global League T20 competition.  CSA president Chris Nenzeni confirmed that the organisations coffers are still in a positive position, after a special board of directors meeting on Wednesday.  The meeting’s discussions were centred around the postponement of the GLT20 and considered various reports around its postponement. Nenzani says the reports revealed no financial mismanagement.  “A complete reconciliation of the total expenditure incurred on the T20GL has been concluded and we can now confirm that all monies have been adequately accounted for and that we have found no irregularities or financial mismanagement” The GLT20 was postponed in October, with CSA sighting that they needed more time to make the much-anticipated tournament a success. Prior to the postponement of the GLT20, former Chief Executive, Haroon Lorgat and CSA mutually parted ways, and has seen Thabang Moroe assume the position in the interim.  Nenzani was adamant that the board stands by its decision to postpone the T20GL.  “Having gone through all the reports, we are convinced that we made the right decision to postpone the T20GL as we were unable to secure the required revenue streams on time and felt that given the uncertainty, continuing with the league in 2017 would pose significant financial risks to CSA.  "As a 100% subsidiary of CSA, the board of Cricket South Africa accepts responsibility for losses incurred and the general disappointment of the tournament being postponed.” The board also noted that the investigations highlighted pervasive governance lapses around the T20GL. “Many learnings have emanated from the findings of the internal investigation. The CSA control environment is what stood us in good stead to date and the same standards should be applied even when we decide to embark on a ring-fenced initiative as the T20GL. We will fix these aspects with a great sense of urgency.”