
                                            As the ANC heads to its crucial elective conference, the KZN provincial general council has spent a significant amount of time discussing unity and the possible implosion of the party.
                                         DURBAN - KwaZulu-Natal African National Congress (ANC) chair Sihle Zikalala has slammed Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa’s proposed “new deal” describing it as “individuals wanting to impose ideas on the organisation”. Zikalala was speaking at the province’s general council which will, among other things, nominate which candidate it prefers to become president. He has taken a swipe at Ramaphosa, saying leaders of the ANC should uphold the principles of the organisation at all times. “A new deal for what? What is the relationship of the new deal with the NDI?"  Zikalala says radical economic transformation is the only policy they recognise. “Radical economic transformation is not a policy of a faction, it’s a policy of the ANC. We’re not going to have some people researching own other fights and then impose ideas.” The KZN chair also says the slate politics seen during the presidential campaign trail threatens to undermine the preferences of the branches. Preliminary numbers show that KZN is likely to put Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma’s name forward. As the ANC heads to its crucial elective conference, the KZN provincial general council has spent a significant amount of time discussing unity and the possible implosion of the party. Zikalala says the organisation is losing its moral standing in society. “The individualised campaign in which comrades have been self-justifying and popularising themselves at the expense of the ANC and what the ANC stands for.” National chair Baleka Mbete, who opened the congress on behalf of the national executive committee, says those predicting a collapse of the conference will be disappointed when the ANC emerges stronger after the gathering. The provincial organisational report will now be delivered before the announcement of the nomination. #ANCKZNPGC Zikalala:fellow comrades,both history and future have bestowed on us a responsibility to think and act as true revolutionaries and true agents of change.ZN  #ANCKZNPGC Zikalala: We need a tried and tested leadership with acknowledged experience and deeper understanding of the state and the tasks of governance.ZN  #ANCKZNPGC Zikalala: often the ANC is strong in identifying its weaknesses but is not the strongest when it has to deal with mismanagement in either the state or the movement.ZN  #ANCKZNPGC Zikalala concludes.Dep.chair apologises on behalf of Mbete who had to leave because she heard that Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula's father has passed away.ZN 