
                                            Committee chairperson Zukiswa Rantho says Anoj Singh sent them 400 pages of documents to read on Monday night even though he was invited to appear before the committee as early as July. 
                                         CAPE TOWN - Eskom's suspended CFO Anoj Singh has been sent packing by Parliament's public enterprises' portfolio committee. Singh was due to testify in the parliamentary inquiry into Eskom on Tuesday afternoon, but Members of Parliament (MPs) were unable to prepare for his appearance because Singh failed to submit crucial documents in good time. Lawmakers have accused him of undermining their work because he had sent them a mountain of documents to read at 11 pm on Monday. Committee chairperson Zukiswa Rantho says Singh sent them 400 pages of documents to read on Monday night even though he was invited to appear before the committee as early as July. “We could not read, not a single page of what you had sent to us.” Democratic Alliance MP Natasha Mazzone has accused him of trying to delay Parliament's work. “All I can say is thank you for my December reading I’m going to read it not once, twice, three times, four times and we’ll see you in January.” African National Congress MP Zukile Luyenge wasn’t going to stand for it. “But if the past experience about Parliament being viewed as that body that is simply there for formalities, gone are those times.” African Christian Democratic Party MP Steve Swart said: “To give us documents last night is unacceptable and we as Parliament need to express our condemnation of that.” Singh is facing internal charges at Eskom. He will have to prepare for a grilling in the new year. Eskom board chairperson Zethembe Khoza was then called to testify in the inquiry.  His 44-page prepared statement began with a disclaimer. Khoza told lawmakers that should he or other non-executive directors fail to remember something, it should not be interpreted as a refusal to answer questions. He claims various former officials and an ex-board member have made false and unsubstantiated allegations during the inquiry.