
                                            Sam Allardyce, who took charge at Goodison Park last week, will be trying to inspire Everton’s first win at Anfield since 1999.
                                         BENGALURU - Everton manager Sam Allardyce said his players will need to be clinical with their limited opportunities on the ball if they are to beat Liverpool in Sunday’s Premier League derby. Allardyce, who took charge at Goodison Park last week, will be trying to inspire Everton’s first win at Anfield since 1999. “We’ve just been installing some of the basics we believe in; team play and how we affect each other’s game and live or die by our teamwork,” the manager told a news conference on Friday. ”We can’t let the occasion overawe us. We have to deliver a performance that is tactically right and block off the areas Liverpool try and work in; then it’s how good we are when we get possession. “We know we probably won’t get as much possession as them so how will we utilise it? If and when we get a chance we need to score.” Juergen Klopp’s Liverpool is on a nine-match unbeaten run with attacking players Philippe Coutinho, Sadio Mane, Roberto Firmino and Mohamed Salah featuring on the scoresheet when they crushed Spartak Moscow 7-0 in the Champions League on Wednesday. Allardyce acknowledged it will be difficult for Everton to nullify Liverpool’s individual attacking threats. “You can’t say ‘if we block these two players off, we will stop Liverpool’. They are more than that at the moment, it’s four or five for me,” he added. “That’s the hard bit for us, that interchange of movement, the runs they make and their skill on the ball. If we are not going to be clinical and show ability on the ball, we will struggle to get out of our own half.” Allardyce confirmed centre-back Phil Jagielka has returned to full fitness while winger Yannick Bolasie is closing in on a first-team return following a long-term knee injury. Everton has moved up to 10th in the league with consecutive victories over West Ham United and Huddersfield Town.