
                                            Gauteng Judge President Dunstan Mlambo found that the Public Protector’s report uncovered worrying levels of corruption and the president had no justifiable basis to ignore the impact of state capture.
                                         JOHANNESBURG - The High Court on Wednesday ruled that President Jacob Zuma had no justifiable basis to ignore the impact of state capture or object to the Public Protector’s remedial action to address the problem. He’s now been ordered to set up a Commission of Inquiry led by a judge appointed by the Chief Justice within 30 days. Here are 14 notable and fiery quotes from the proceedings:  “The president had no acceptable basis in law to have persisted with this investigation. In fact, the president’s conduct amounts to an attempt to stymie the fulfilment of a constitutional obligation by the office of the Public Protector.” – Gauteng Judge President Dunstan Mlambo  “A simple punitive costs order is not appropriate. I say this because that would make the taxpayer liable for the costs ... The conduct of the president and the context of the litigation he initiated requires a sterner rebuke.” – Gauteng Judge President Dunstan Mlambo “The president had no justifiable basis to launch the review application in the circumstances. In doing so, he was reckless and acted unreasonably.” – Gauteng Judge President Dunstan Mlambo “The president had no justifiable basis to simply ignore the impact of this corruption on the South African public. His conduct also falls far short of the expectations of him as head of state to support institutions of democracy such as the Public Protector.” – Gauteng Judge President Dunstan Mlambo “None of the grounds of review has any merits and the president is not entitled to the relief that he seeks. The remedial action taken by the Public Protector is lawful, appropriate and reasonable and rational." – Gauteng Judge President Dunstan Mlambo “The president had no justifiable basis to simply ignore the impact of this corruption on the South African public. His conduct also falls far short of the expectation of him as head of state to support institutions of democracy such as the Public Protector.” – Gauteng Judge President Dunstan Mlambo “The Public Protector’s direction that the Chief Justice select the judge who is to preside over the commission of inquiry is both necessary and appropriate, in order to render the remedial action taken suitable and effective. The president’s contrary argument must be rejected.” – Gauteng Judge President Dunstan Mlambo “We are of the view that [Zuma] was ill-advised and reckless in launching the challenge against the remedial actions of the Public Protector. His court challenge further delayed the resolution of the state capture challenge allegations.” – Gauteng Judge President Dunstan Mlambo  “The essence of this judgement is the rule of law and justice. As Judge President Mlambo said, it’s really about restating and reinforcing the rule of law.” – Former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela  “The key element that emerged today is accountability, that nobody can exercise public power without being accountable or answerable.” – Former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela “We welcome this damning judgment as a victory of accountability because many public representatives use public resources to defend personal interests and not those of the state or the public.” – EFF statement  “[ANC leaders] have protected [Zuma]; they themselves have failed to uphold the Constitution. That was confirmed by the Constitutional Court in the Nkandla matter.” – COPE leader Mosiuoa Lekota  “Despite all of these pronouncements … by the president, to say he wants to institute a commission of inquiry, he’s used every legal process to try and obfuscate the matter. So it’s good that a cost order was given against him.” – DA leader Mmusi Maimane  “We welcome [the judgment]. It’s important that we must deal with allegations of corruption because every day there are mounting allegations and revelations about state capture, whether it’s in the private sector or particularly the public sector. It is important that we must act urgently, so that we deal with perceptions and reality at the same time.” – ANC spokesperson Zizi Kodwa 