
                                            Restoring the broken trust between the ANC and its supporters is possibly Ramaphosa’s most urgent task and his biggest challenge.
                                         JOHANNESBURG - New African National Congress (ANC) president Cyril Ramaphosa has a lengthy to-do list, including restoring the image and integrity of the party and knitting together the divisions that have threatened to unravel it. Ramaphosa will want to set the tone for his first term and quickly assert his authority. Restoring the broken trust between the ANC and its supporters is possibly Ramaphosa’s most urgent task and his biggest challenge. That’s because to achieve this, he will need to unite the party across the fault lines of factions and divergent interests.  He will also have to manage the compromised and the corrupt who have managed to either keep their seats or win election to the ANC’s new national executive committee. With the 2019 elections a mere 18 months away, Ramaphosa and other party leaders must also come up with a plan to get President Jacob Zuma to exit the Union Buildings early, the better to signal a break with the arrogance and intransigence that has characterized his tenure. Overseeing efforts to find ways of implementing the conference’s decision to amend the Constitution to allow for land expropriation without compensation.  The new NEC will have a workshop with legal experts. ZUMA ALLIES IN NEC Several senior ANC members who have courted controversy while serving in Zuma's Cabinet have made it onto their party's newly elected National Executive Committee (NEC). The composition of the party's highest decision-making body between conferences was expected to be an indicator of the balance of power in the party's leadership. Ramaphosa finds himself leading an NEC packed with the president's allies. Tina Joemat-Pettersson, who's been re-elected, served in different portfolios before she was shuffled out of President Zuma's Cabinet, with Parliament approving a R2 million bonus for her. Former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela recommended that she be disciplined for reckless handling of state money when she investigated a controversial fisheries tender several years ago. Joemat-Pettersson challenged Madonsela's report in court, but lost. Former deputy Higher Education Minister Mduduzi Manana has also made it on to the NEC. He recently pleaded guilty to assaulting three women. Public Service and Administration Minister Faith Muthambi has also seen her fair share of scandal. She's come under fire from opposition politicians for allegedly misleading Parliament during an inquiry into the SABC. Muthambi was also implicated in the Gupta leaks for allegedly sharing confidential Cabinet documents with the influential Gupta family. FULL LIST OF ANC NEC: Zweli Mkhize Lindiwe Zulu Regina Makgaule David Masondo Malusi Gigaba Ronald Lamola Violet Siwela Zizi Kodwa Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma Obed Bapela Tito Mboweni Lindiwe Sisulu Bheki Cele Fikile Mbalula Thoko Didiza Sdumo Dlamini Bathabile Dlamini Senzo Mchunu Pravin Gordhan Naledi Pandor Ivan Botes Zingiswa Losi Jackson Mthembu Phumulo Masualle Pule Mabe Sfiso Buthelezi Mduduzi Manana Aaron Motsoaledi Thandi Modise Edna Molewa Collen Maine Nathi Mthethwa Tina Joemat-Pettersson Nkenke Kekana Maite Nkoana-Mashabane Angie Motshekga Bongani Bongo Enoch Godongwana Nomvula Mokonyane Baleka Mbete Derrick Hanekom Mondli Gungubele Jeff Radebe David Mahlobo Ruth Bhengu Msebenzi Zwane Pinky Kekana Nocawe Mafu Joe Maswanganyi Tony Yengeni Joel Netshitenzhe Dakota Lekgoete Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula Noxolo Kiviet Ngoako Ramathlodi Mathole Motshekga Sbongile Bhesane Thandi Mahambehlala Susan Shabangu Pinky Moloi Beauty Dluelane Pamela Tshwete Toko Xasa Dipuo Letsatsi-Duba Dikeledi Magadzi Thabang Makwetla Siyabonga Cwele Barbrah Creecy Mildred Oliphant Khensani Khubayi Nomaindia Mfeketho Hlengiwe Mkhize Pemmy Majodina Faith Mothambi Rejoice Mabudavhasi Cindy Tshikunga Gwen Ramokgopa Sylvia Lucas Pammy Majodina Candith Mashego (Edited by Leeto M Khoza)