
                                            Defending Premier Soccer League champions Bidvest Wits are feeling the pressure after their goalless draw against Ajax Cape Town at the Bidvest Stadium in Johannesburg on Wednesday night.
                                         JOHANNESBURG- Defending Premier Soccer League champions Bidvest Wits are feeling the pressure after their goalless draw against Ajax Cape Town at the Bidvest Stadium in Johannesburg on Wednesday night. Both teams are feeling the pressure, as they are languishing at the bottom of the table, and need to start winning to lift themselves off the foot of the table.  They haven’t given themselves much chance of winning though as their form in front of goal hasn’t been impressive. Wits has scored only six goals this whole season so far and Ajax have only found the back of the net nine times, and they have both conceded 15 goals.  On Wednesday night, they once again failed to score goals in terrible conditions at the Bidvest Stadium, with only Egyptian Amr Gamal the only one with a clear-cut chance to score a goal. Gamal, though, sent his shot sailing over the cross bar from close range, after a goal mouth scramble fell to his feet.  Admittedly both coaches said that their woes in front of goal have been a concern. Wits coach Gavin Hunt said that the lack of goals has plagued them all season. “It’s been a problem since day one of the season, we just haven’t been able to score goals,” said Hunt.  Hunt’s counterpart on the night, Stanley Menzo said that points are of paramount importance now, as the fight to stay alive in the league hots up after the Christmas break.  “We need points, there is no doubt about it, we need them for the log, and we need them for the confidence of the players.”  In the other results from Wednesday night, the match between Amazulu and Bloemfontein Celtic at the King Zwelithini Stadium was postponed due to a water-logged field.  Chippa United climbed up to second on the log with a surprise 1-0 victory over Kaizer Chiefs in Port Elizabeth. Bongi Ntuli’s 47th minute goal gave Platinum Stars a 1-0 victory over Polokwane City at the Peter Mokaba Stadium, while Free State Stars beat Golden Arrows 2-1 at Goble Park. 