
                                            Alastair Cook had defied the Australian bowlers and put on an opening stand of 53 before they departed in the space of four overs leaving James Vince and Joe Root at the crease.
                                         ADELAIDE - England lost both their openers in the last half hour of the second session to drop to 68 for two, 286 shy of their hefty victory target, after making a steady start to their run chase on day four of the second Ashes Test on Tuesday. Alastair Cook, who made 16, and Mark Stoneman, who notched up 36, had defied the Australian bowlers and put on an opening stand of 53 before they departed in the space of four overs leaving James Vince and Joe Root at the crease. Vince had made eight not out and skipper Root seven at dinner.  A first five-wicket haul in Australia for James Anderson (5-43) and 4-36 from Chris Woakes had handed the tourists a target of 354 to win the test and level up the series after they dismissed their hosts for 138 at tea. Although the hosts managed to add only 85 runs to their overnight tally in bright sunshine at Adelaide Oval, that was still enough to push their lead well past the record successful fourth innings run chase at the ground of 315. Anderson picked up where he left off in Monday’s night session with a superb display of seam bowling to dismiss nightwatchman Nathan Lyon, a jittery Peter Handscomb and Mitchell Starc cheaply. Woakes chipped in to see off Tim Paine and Shaun Marsh, ensuring the latter was unable to repeat the unbeaten 126 that underpinned Australia’s 442 for eight declared in the first innings.  The debate over whether Steve Smith should have enforced the follow-on after England were bowled out for 227 on Monday will continue to rage. His judgement was again called into question when he failed to use a DRS review in the fourth over of England’s innings after Josh Hazlewood caught Cook on the backfoot with just one run on the board. Hawk Eye tracking showed the ball would have taken out Cook’s leg stump but the technology was to come back to haunt the Englishman when it looked like he might make it to dinner. Smith referred a “not out” lbw call off the bowling of off-spinner Lyon and the technology showed once again that the ball would have crashed into Cook’s leg stump. Stoneman had scored in bursts, taking three successive fours off one Starc over, and survived a small scare when his sweep did not quite carry to Hazlewood in the field. Left-armer Starc had his revenge with the second ball of his second spell, however, when Stoneman pushed at a fizzing delivery and Usman Khawaja took a fine catch at gully.