
                                            Emmerson Mnangwaga met with President Jacob Zuma and is now addressing Zimbabweans at the consulate in Pretoria.
                                         PRETORIA – Zimbabwean business people living in South Africa are gathering at the country’s consulate in Pretoria for a meeting with newly appointed interim President Emmerson Mnangagwa. He says his country is now open for business and investment with South Africa. Mnangagwa says to achieve growth, the government has decided to change some laws. “From now on, Zimbabwe is open for business. Yes, there’ll be political issues but primarily it's economics and trade and Zimbabwe.” He is in the country on his first working visit since he was inaugurated in Harare last month. Mnangagwa says the mining quota ownership laws in his country are being scrapped to open Zimbabwe for investment. He says the government has decided to revisit its own laws on business. He says there will be major amendments to laws. “In the past, the policy was that investors coming to Zimbabwe were required to agree to 51% for Zimbabwe, and 49% for the investor. We have now changed that to limit that application to minerals only." Hundreds of Zimbabwean business people have filled the marquee there while another crowd struggles to find its way into the already full premises. While most people are happy about the statesman’s visit, a man at the event says Mnangagwa is a murderer and shouldn’t be forgiven for crimes committed under former President Robert Mugabe. EMMERSON MNANGAGWA MEETS JACOB ZUMA Mnangagwa says he’s making his first foreign visit as Zimbabwe’s new president to seek guidance from his South African counterpart with whom he worked during the liberation struggle. He saw Zuma only hours after the South African leader got home from the protracted African National Congress national conference. The Zimabwean president reports that the Zanu-PF also had a peaceful conference last week. He drew belly laughs from his host pointing to an important difference between how the leadership is determined in the ruling parties in the neighbouring states. Mnangagwa says he impressed on Zuma the need to be completely open and free to discuss anything in order to grow the already very close bilateral relationship. WATCH: Emmerson Mnangagwa address  (Edited by Masechaba Sefularo)