
                                            Lieutenant-Colonel Tankiso Moshoeshoe was identified on Tuesday as the member who manhandled 'Bloomberg' journalist Sam Mkokeli.
                                         JOHANNESBURG - Questions have emerged about possible political bias from the police commander in charge of security at the African National Congress (ANC) elective conference after pictures emerged of him publicly supporting presidential candidate Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma.  Lieutenant-Colonel Tankiso Moshoeshoe was identified on Tuesday as the member who manhandled Bloomberg journalist Sam Mkokeli.  A video of the incident has since gone viral on social media and Mkokeli who gave up his accreditation to avoid having it forcibly removed was evicted from the venue and only had the accreditation returned hours later.  Mshoeshoe is the police’s major events commander and based in the VIP protection unit.  WATCH: Journalist assaulted by ANC security speaks to EWN  The lieutenant-colonel posted his support for Dlamini Zuma on Facebook on numerous occasions in the lead up to the elective conference.  In one of the posts he shares an image of Dlamini Zuma with the words “We are ready for Nkosazana” while in another he simply writes, “victory s certain”. 
                                                                  Section 46 of the SAPS Act prohibits police officers from wearing any political party identification or advancing a party’s interests in any manner whatsoever. In another Facebook post, Moshoeshoe is holding what appears to be an AK-47 assault rifle which is not a SAPS issued weapon. 
                                                                  In September, the ANC had to distance itself from two bodyguards of senior KwaZulu-Natal members - after they were filmed brandishing a similar rifle. The police’s Vish Naidoo says they are investigating the origins of the rifle as well as allegations of Moshoeshoe’s public displays of political support for a ANC candidate.