
                                            At least 223 delegates in the province voted for 'unity' in last week’s branch nominations.
                                         JOHANNESBURG - Presidential hopeful Mathews Phosa says he will be challenging the outcome of the African National Congress’ (ANC) Mpumalanga general council, demanding a rerun. At least 223 delegates in the province voted for "unity" in last week’s branch nominations. Dr Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma received 123 nominations while her rival Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa clinched 117. Phosa says he has proof that members were told to vote for unity. “We have videos of people saying to delegates that they must vote for unity. That’s influencing them. Who is unity? We don’t know the membership, branch or address of unity. It’s a mythical creation of David Mabuza.” Phosa says he will head to court by on Wednesday to challenge the outcome of the vote. He says he will not tolerate corruption. There’s still no clarity, however, on exactly who most delegates in Mpumalanga are supporting after the word "unity" appeared on most ballot papers during the provincial general council. At the same time, Mpumalanga chairperson David Mabuza said his province will only back someone who has the best interest of the organisation at heart and seeks unity. “We must put the unity of the organisation first. That means the leadership of the ANC we’ll elect will achieve this through consistency.” Meanwhile, ANC secretary general Gwede Mantashe says the party now has the burden of converting the nominations for unity into actual votes. Mantashe gave feedback on the outcomes of the final national executive committee meeting of this term at Luthuli House on Monday. “There will be no vote for unity because there will be no unity on the ballot box.” Mantashe says delegates will only have a choice between officially nominated candidates. “The work there is to try and covert unity to names of human beings.” Mantashe adds nominated presidential candidates must prepare themselves for both a win or loss and accept the outcome. (Edited by Shimoney Regter)