
                                            Cyril Ramaphosa has triumphed over Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma to become the party’s 14th president.
                                         JOHANNESBURG – The ANC has named Cyril Ramaphosa as its new president at the party’s 54th national conference at Nasrec in Soweto. Ramaphosa is the party’s 14th president and replaces Jacob Zuma who has held the position since 2012. His competition for the ANC presidential race was Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma. Ramaphosa received 2,440 votes to Dlamini Zuma's 2,261. 
                                                                  David Mabuza has been elected deputy president, with 2,538 votes compared to Lindiwe Sisulu's 2,159. Gwede Mantashe is the new national chairperson having obtained 2,418 votes to Nathi Mthethwa's 2,269. Ace Magashule will serve as secretary-general after winning 2,360 votes versus Senzo Mchunu with 2,336 votes. Jessie Duarte has been chosen as deputy secretary general with 2,474 votes compared to 2,213 for Zingiswa Losi. Paul Mashatile is the party's new treasurer general after obtaining 2,517 votes to Maite Nkoana-Mashabane's 2,178.  CELEBRATIONS OUTSIDE The streets outside Nasrec expo centre are electrifying as motorists passing by hoot at the hundreds of ANC supporters standing outside. On the Rand Show Road just outside the centre, Ramaphosa’s supporters are marching through the streets singing “zizo jika izinto”, meaning "things will change". One ANC member from Limpopo says they believe the party is going back to its glory days. “We now have dignity.” Another member said: “The integrity of the ANC came back the party, where it belongs.” At the same time, the police and JMPD officers are also there to monitor the celebrations. Dlamini Zuma’s supporters wearing T-shirts with her face on them say they don’t see this as a defeat but a win for the ANC; but every now and they shout out the name of Free State Premier and now Secretary General Ace Magashule. It seems celebrations will continue well into the night.     UNHAPPY BATHABILE At the fence which separates the media from the plenary venue, it is calm in comparison to earlier when some delegates could be seen huddled in corners making sense of the results announcement. The media was also ushered out of the plenary while a visibly upset ANCWL President Bathabile Dlamini could be seen walking out of the venue and prodding journalists to leave. Dlamini was a staunch advocate and campaigner for presidential runner-up Dlamini Zuma and right behind her was Small Enterprises Minister Lindiwe Zulu.  (Edited by Winnie Theletsane)