
                                            Spokesperson Nkenke Kekana says that even if Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma wins, they will too work with her.
                                         JOHANNESBURG - The Gauteng African National Congress (ANC) says it is confident that the national conference will be successful, with a united outcome. The province this weekend nominated deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa as its preferred candidate to take over from President Jacob Zuma. Spokesperson Nkenke Kekana says that even if Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma wins, they will too work with her. “Any initiative taken by any leader of the ANC to unite the leadership and the ANC as a whole should be encouraged and we’re working with all provincial leaders to ensure that we succeed at the conference.” Meanwhile, the Gauteng ANC says that its general council has resolved that the party’s national leadership needs to be increased with an additional deputy president and deputy secretary general. Kekana says that while the leadership process is important and the province is pleased with the nominations, there’s more to the conference. He says the PGC resolved that the national leadership should have two deputy presidents and two secretary-generals. Kekana says this will strengthen Luthuli House and help to better monitor and implement ANC policies. He also says the PGC also resolved to look into a combination electoral system where voters can directly elect presidents, premiers and mayors. MPUMALANGA With exactly two weeks to go until the ANC’s national elective conference gets underway, Dlamini Zuma is trailing Ramaphosa with presidential nominations. The ANC in Mpumalanga on Friday endorsed Dlamini Zuma to take over as president of the party. Dlamini Zuma received 123 nominations while her rival Ramaphosa was short of just six votes at 117. The party held its provincial general council at the Mbombela stadium. A song titled "Unity" was the order of the day. Some 223 delegates abstained by writing unity on the nomination forms. Now with those votes consolidated, Dlamini Zuma has been named the preferred candidate but provincial chair David Mabuza says a vote for her at the elective conference in two weeks will be a fractional decision. “I’ll take this view of the province to other provinces and we’ll discuss with them.” Mabuza is calling for thorough negotiations in an effort to elect a credible and united leadership at the conference.