
                                            Mathabatha says Limpopo ANC branches have spoken and Ramaphosa is the preferred candidate.
                                         POLOKWANE – African National Congress (ANC)  Limpopo chairperson Stan Mathabatha says he pleased with the outcome of the general council which has seen Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa emerging as the province's preferred candidate. The council convened at a lodge in Polokwane on Monday to consolidate branch nominations for the party's top six positions. Mathabatha says Limpopo ANC branches have spoken and Ramaphosa is the preferred candidate. “The mandate is clear, it says Cyril Ramaphosa must be the candidate that’s proposed by Limpopo.” At the same time, ANC Deputy Secretary Jessie Duarte has urged the Limpopo provincial council to respect the outcome of Monday's nominations. She says unity should form the main pillar at this year's elective conference in 12 days’ time. Duarte says no one individual is bigger than the party. “We have to change it from where it was in apartheid because of colonialism of a special type of a place where every South African belong and is able to say 'this country is mine'.” Lindiwe Sisulu has been named the preferred deputy president and Gauteng Chairperson Paul Mashatile treasurer general. Meanwhile, ANC national chair Baleka Mbete says if delegates enter the elective conference in the spirit of unity, they will disappoint those who've negatively predicted the gathering's collapse.    DLAMINI ZUMA’S VOTES Dlamini Zuma has secured 104 votes from the Limpop general council which is more than double the amount that analysts had predicted. The Youth League in Limpopo, which is backing Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma, is claiming victory despite Ramaphosa obtaining a whopping 391 branch votes. The league says the number of votes in Dlamini Zuma’s favour is a major breakthrough which will give the presidential hopeful an edge in the upcoming elective conference. The ANC Youth League’s Matome Moremi praise the 104 nominations for Dlamini Zuma. “We’re pleased that we reached the 100 mark because most of our detractors had predicted that we would get at least 40 votes.” Moremi added: “We’re confident that we’ll at least bring 200 delegates at the national poll and it should put us at the top of things.” He says Ramaphosa has not won the ANC presidency just yet. The provincial delegates now have the mandate to support Ramaphosa as per branch votes. Meanwhile, KwaZulu-Natal’s provincial general council is due to announce its preferred candidate later on.   (Edited by Winnie Theletsane)