
                                            DA leader party leader Mmusi Maimane hailed the strength of coalition governments in Johannesburg and Port Elizabeth following failed motions of no confidence.
                                         CAPE TOWN – The Democratic Alliance (DA) says it's become clear that the African National Congress (ANC) is dead. Citing Thursday’s failed motions of confidence brought against Johannesburg Mayor Herman Mashaba and his Nelson Mandela Bay counterpart Athol Trollip, party leader Mmusi Maimane hailed the strength of coalition governments in those cities.  The ANC's bid to unseat Mashaba failed on Thursday. The party wanted Mashaba removed, claiming that service delivery has suffered under his watch. WATCH: Joburg Mayor Mashaba survives no confidence vote  In Port Elizabeth, Trollip also survived a no confidence bid brought by the Patriotic Alliance. It was backed by United Democratic Movement and the ANC. Trollip says he was always confident the move wouldn't succeed. “I don’t take this position of being the mayor of the city named after Nelson Mandela lightly at all. I was not surprised that the motion was brought by two councillors who are part of a coalition of the aggrieved. I am very pleased that we were able to withstand the motion.” Meanwhile in Cape Town, the ANC is still gunning for Mayor Patricia de Lille. But it's proposed motion of no confidence in her will not be tabled next week. The city council's Speaker, Dirk Smit, says the notice delivered by the ANC is defective as it doesn’t comply with municipal rules. “Every notice of motion shall be in writing in the form of a draft proposal. It shall be submitted to the speaker. It must be signed by the members submitting it and the members seconding it.” But the DA’s arch rival in the city isn't deterred. The ANC’s Xolani Sotashe says: “I have seen the response from the speaker and for me it is just a question of compliance. I advise the chief whip of the ANC just to correct whatever is required and resubmit the motion, so that it can be tabled next Tuesday.” (Edited by Shimoney Regter)