
                                            Gauteng was the latest province to nail its colours, with most branches endorsing Cyril Ramaphosa
                                         JOHANNESBURG - With less than two weeks to go before the African National Congress (ANC) elects a new leadership, most provinces have made it clear that the race for the presidency is firmly between Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa and Dr Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma.  Gauteng was the latest province to nail its colours to the mast, with most branches endorsing Ramaphosa, joining the Northern Cape, Western Cape and Eastern Cape. Ramaphosa received 374 votes to Dlamini Zuma's 64. Political analyst Sipho Seepe says this comes as no surprise from Gauteng. “Gauteng’s position was always known, even before the race started.” Political analyst Daniel Silke also says the results were expected and almost a replica of the team Ramaphosa announced for his preferred slate last month. “Ramaphosa’s relationship with Gauteng has always been very solid. On the basis of that, we’ve seen up to 90% being loyal.” However, Silke says of all the provinces, Mpumalanga played a more strategic move by having most of its delegates vote for unity instead of a candidate.  Meanwhile, Dlamini Zuma is the preferred candidate in Free State, Northern Cape and Mpumalanga.  There’s still no clarity, however, on exactly who most delegates in Mpumalanga are supporting after the word "unity" appeared on most ballot papers during the provincial general council. Mpumalanga chairperson David Mabuza says his province will only back someone who has the best interest of the organisation at heart and seeks unity. “We must put the unity of the organisation first. That means the leadership of the ANC we’ll elect will achieve this through consistency.” Limpopo and KwaZulu-Natal are still expected to hold their general councils on Monday, where branch nominations will be consolidated for the party's leadership race. (Edited by Shimoney Regter)