
                                            This is Ramaphosa’s first public duty as the newly elected president of the governing party and if his jovial conversations with the vendors were anything to go by, it’s safe to say he is in high spirits.
                                         JOHANNESBURG - Newly elected African National Congress (ANC) president Cyril Ramaphosa, accompanied by new Treasurer General Paul Mashatile, have been on a walkabout at the party’s national conference in Nasrec on Monday. This is Ramaphosa’s first public duty as the newly elected president of the governing party and if his jovial conversations with the vendors were anything to go by, it’s safe to say he is in high spirits and laughed off jokes that it's strange referring to him as Mr president. Ramaphosa purchased some clothing from some stalls and exchanged jokes with those around him bursting into laughter every so often. He is expected to give a short address to members of the media, who have been warned that this is not an opportunity for questions. Ramaphosa is then expected to continue his walkabout inside the Progressive Business Forum's networking centre inside Nasrec. Ramaphosa says he wants the governing party to emerge from the elective conference stronger and renewed. He's also commented on the election of the top six leadership, saying those chosen combine difference views. “And we have proven once again, maybe for the millionth time in our 105 years’ history of existence that the ANC is able to rise even above its own strength.” Ramaphosa says the party has proven it is able to rise above its problems to emerge united. On the conference itself, Ramaphosa shrugged off what he calls the doomsayers who predicted that the conference would collapse. However, there have been many delays, lots of confusion and waiting as the programme has been delayed from day one. He says despite the many delays, he believes the conference would have concluded its business by Wednesday. Ramaphosa also thanked the media. He said: “So we thank you for being the medium through which you help us exercise our transparency." On what he bought during his walkabout, Ramaphosa said: “Together with the TG we collected a number of cards but also both of us had to spend a lot of money because we wanted to support them and they’ve done a good trade.”  Meanwhile, a showdown is looming at the ANC's national conference on Monday afternoon where a call for the recount of the votes cast for the position of secretary-general is expected to be made. In a surprise outcome on Monday Free State premier Ace Magashule snatched the post from Senzo Mchunu by just 24 votes. But Mchunu's supporters are claiming more than 60 votes cast weren't counted. The steering committee running the ANC's conference has been trying to resolve this dispute behind the scenes. Mchunu came into the contest for the key secretary general position with many more branch nominations than the man who won, Magashule. Mchunu's supporters now seem set on raising the issue of the so-called missing votes in a plenary session on Monday afternoon. If that happens, North West Premier Supra Mahumapelo has said that he has a mandate to call for a re-run of the entire vote for the top six. Last night's leadership results were hailed as a win for unity but it's clear that there is still a lot of contestation. 