
                                            Judge President Dunstan Mlambo says the Public Protector’s report uncovered worrying levels of corruption and the president had no justifiable basis to ignore the impact of state capture.  
                                         PRETORIA - The High Court has ruled that President Jacob Zuma had no justifiable basis to ignore the impact of state capture and object to the Public Protector’s remedial action to address the problem. He’s now been ordered to set up a Commission of Inquiry led by a judge appointed by the chief justice within 30 days. The full bench handed down the unanimous judgment in Pretoria on Wednesday. Judge President Dunstan Mlambo says the Public Protector’s report uncovered worrying levels of corruption. “The president had no justifiable basis to simply ignore the impact of this corruption on the South African public. His conduct also falls far short of the expectations of him as head of state to support institutions of democracy such as the Public Protector.” He says the remedial action presented Zuma with an opportunity to confront and address the problem. “The president had no justifiable basis to launch the review application in the circumstances. In doing so, he was reckless and acted unreasonably.” For his conduct, the court has ordered the president to personally pay the costs of the application.  'INQUIRY INTO STATE CAPTURE ALLEGATIONS IS NEEDED' The African National Congress (ANC) has welcomed Wednesday’s scathing judgment against Zuma, saying it hopes he’ll implement the ruling.  In the latest in a series of judicial blows to Zuma’s scandal-tinged administration, the court upheld recommendations by the Public Protector calling for an inquiry into state capture.  National spokesperson Zizi Kodwa says the ANC’s NEC resolved that given the seriousness of the allegations, a Judicial Commission of Inquiry into state capture allegations is needed. “The legal issues have been addressed and resolved. It’s our prayer that the president implements this judgment for the sake of the country. The sooner these allegations are addressed the sooner the country can move forward.” Former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela authored the State of Capture report.  She says there was a key element in the judgment. “Within the context of the rule of law, the key elements that have emerged today is accountability, that nobody can exercise public power without being accountable or answerable for the exercise of that power.” Meanwhile, Democratic Alliance leader Mmusi Maimane says Zuma hasn’t been sincere in pursuing an inquiry into state capture. “Despite all of these pronouncements, which were made in the judgment by the president to say he wants to institute a Commission of Inquiry, he’s used every legal resource to try and obfuscate the matter. So, it’s good that a court order was given to him.” The Economic Freedom Fighters’ Godrich Gardee says Zuma must not appeal. “We look forward to a situation whereby he does not do so because he will be making his case far more worse. There’s an impeachment case that will be an order made by the Constitutional Court very soon and it will add to the legal woes of the president."  STATE CAPTURE ALLEGATIONS ARRESTS The Hawks say they are hoping to make arrests soon in connection with allegations of state capture.  Hawks spokesperson Brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi says separate cases have been taken to the NPA, but he couldn’t give timelines. “We’re waiting for them to make a decision. There are other links within the same investigation that we’ll be taking to the NPA very soon.” (Edited by Zamangwane Shange)