
                                            She says delegates will not be allowed to wear t shirts representing a particular faction or sing slogans praising their preferred candidates.
                                         POLOKWANE - African National Congress (ANC) Deputy Secretary-General Jessie Duarte has made a call for unity and respect among delegates attending the party’s upcoming national conference. She says delegates will not be allowed to wear t-shirts representing a particular faction or sing slogans praising their preferred candidates. She was speaking to Limpopo provincial general council members who convened to consolidate branch nominations ahead of the ANC leadership race. Duarte says discipline at its highest would be required at the elective conference. She has warned those who may try to disrupt proceedings. “That is not going to happen, not to the ANC, not at a national conference of the ANC.” She then urged them to rally behind those who will have won, saying it is important. “We have made our voices known in our branches and we have said these are our preferences. That preference must be respected.” The Limpopo council has also named Lindiwe Sisulu, Gwede Mantashe, Senzo Mchunu and Paul Mashatile as its preferred top six. LIMPOPO CHOOSES HOMEBOY Despite Cyril Ramaphosa being named the preferred candidate for the African National Congress (ANC) presidency in Limpopo on Monday, the Youth League which supports Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma, have claimed victory. The provincial general council convened to consolidate votes from branches for the party’s top six and additional membership positions. Ramaphosa obtained 391 branch nominations compared to 104 for rival Dlamini Zuma. Provincial chairperson Stan Mathabatha has urged members going to the elective conference to go there with one mandate only - voting for Ramaphosa for president. “Cyril Ramaphosa must be the candidate that is proposed by Limpopo.” He also says his province will now try to persuade others in voting for Ramaphosa in the next 11 days. Meanwhile, the ANC Youth League in that province says Ramaphosa hasn’t won the election just yet and warned his supporters to pronounce victory before the end of the elective conference. Sisulu has been named the province's preferred deputy president. (Edited by Leeto M Khoza)