
                                            The composition of the party's highest decision-making body between conferences was expected to be an indicator of the balance of power in the party's leadership.
                                         JOHANNESBURG - Several senior African National Congress (ANC) members who've courted controversy while serving in President Jacob Zuma's Cabinet have made it on to their party's newly elected National Executive Committee (NEC). The composition of the party's highest decision-making body between conferences was expected to be an indicator of the balance of power in the party's leadership. Cyril Ramaphosa finds himself leading an NEC packed with the president's allies. Tina Joemat-Pettersson who's been re-elected, served in different portfolios before she was shuffled out of President Zuma's Cabinet, with Parliament approving a R2 million bonus for her. Former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela recommended she be disciplined for reckless handling of state money when she investigated a controversial fisheries tender several years ago. Joemat-Pettersson challenged Madonsela's report in court, but lost. Former Deputy Higher Education Minister Mduduzi Manana has also made it on to the NEC. He recently pleaded guilty to assaulting three women. Public Service and Administration Minister Faith Muthambi has also seen her fair share of scandal. She's come under fire from opposition politicians for allegedly misleading Parliament during an inquiry into the SABC. Muthambi was also implicated in the Gupta leaks for allegedly sharing confidential Cabinet documents with the influential Gupta family. FULL LIST OF ANC NEC: Zweli Mkhize Lindiwe Zulu Regina Makgaule David Masondo Malusi Gigaba Ronald Lamola Violet Siwela Zizi Kodwa Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma Obed Bapela Tito Mboweni Lindiwe Sisulu Bheki Cele Fikile Mbalula Thoko Didiza Sdumo Dlamini Bathabile Dlamini Senzo Mchunu Pravin Gordhan Naledi Pandor Ivan Botes Zingiswa Losi Jackson Mthembu Phumulo Masualle Pule Mabe Sfiso Buthelezi Mduduzi Manana Aaron Motsoaledi Thandi Modise Edna Molewa Collen Maine Nathi Mthethwa Tina Joemat-Pettersson Nkenke Kekana Maite Nkoana-Mashabane Angie Motshekga Bongani Bongo Enoch Godongwana Nomvula Mokonyane Baleka Mbete Derrick Hanekom Mondli Gungubele Jeff Radebe David Mahlobo Ruth Bhengu Msebenzi Zwane Pinky Kekana Nocawe Mafu Joe Maswanganyi Tony Yengeni Joel Netshitenzhe Dakota Lekgoete Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula Noxolo Kiviet Ngoako Ramathlodi Mathole Motshekga Sbongile Bhesane Thandi Mahambehlala Susan Shabangu Pinky Moloi Beauty Dluelane Pamela Tshwete Toko Xasa Dipuo Letsatsi-Duba Dikeledi Magadzi Thabang Makwetla Siyabonga Cwele Barbrah Creecy Mildred Oliphant Khensani Khubayi Nomaindia Mfeketho Hlengiwe Mkhize Pemmy Majodina Faith Mothambi Rejoice Mabudavhasi Cindy Tshikunga Gwen Ramokgopa Sylvia Lucas Pammy Majodina Candith Mashego