
                                            Orlando Pirates missed out on the opportunity to go top of the PSL table when they played out to a goal-less draw against SuperSport United at  Orlando Stadium on Tuesday night. 
                                         JOHANNESBURG - Orlando Pirates missed out on the opportunity to go top of the Premier Soccer League (PSL) log after they drew 0-0 against SuperSport United at the Orlando Stadium on Tuesday night.  In a game of two halves, in which SuperSport dominated the first 45 mins, and Pirates coming into the game in the second half, both sides created numerous chances that they couldn’t convert.  SuperSport enjoyed the lion’s share of the possession and sustained long periods of pressure in the Pirates half.  The first chance of the game fell to New Zealand international striker Jeremy Brockie, who turned his marker beautifully and rounded goalkeeper Jackson Mabokgwane, only for his shot to hit the woodwork.  Bafana Bafana defender Clayton Daniels then had a glorious opportunity to put Matsatsantsa ahead, after a goalmouth scramble and the ball fell to his feet, but the defender sent his effort sailing over the crossbar from close range. The teams went into the break locked at 0-0.  The home side Pirates came out stronger in the second stanza and created numerous chances of their own.  Captain Thabo Matlaba couldn’t finish off a sweeping counter-attacking move from the left-hand side and sent his shot straight to Reyaad Pieterse in goal. The match ended goal-less and Pirates forfeited their number two spot on the log.  There were plenty of goals elsewhere in the country on Tuesday night.  Mamelodi Sundowns, through a brace from Percy Tau, despatched leaders Baroka FC at the Lucas Moripe Stadium, and climbed to the top of the log, while Maritzburg United also spoiled Cape Town City’s chances of finishing the night on top of the log, with a 4-2 victory at the Princess Magogo Stadium. Five more PSL fixtures are scheduled for Wednesday night.  Free State Stars take on Golden Arrows at Goble Park. Amazulu battle it out against Bloemfontein Celtic. Chippa United are at home to Kaizer Chiefs. Polokwane City play Platinum Stars, while Bidvest Wits and Ajax Cape Town are in action at the Bidvest Stadium.