
                                            The High Court has ruled that public prosecutions boss Shaun Abrahams must vacate his office. 
                                         JOHANNESBURG - The African National Congress (ANC) says it hopes Friday’s judgment on the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) will be dealt with urgently as it has serious implications both legally and politically. The High Court has ruled that public prosecutions boss Shaun Abrahams  must vacate his office. It’s also ordered Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa to appoint a new national director of public prosecutions in the next 60 days. The ANC's Zizi Kodwa said: “We are hopeful and trust that as they do so, they will take that into consideration they must do so in the interest of the administration of justice. They must do so in the interest of the NPA; they must also do so in the in the interest of the country.” The Council for the Advancement of the South African Constitution (Casac) along with other groups had approached the court seeking an order declaring former prosecutions boss Mxolisi Nxasana's removal invalid. Nxasana must now repay his controversial R17 million handshake Casac says it's important that civil society uses the law and the courts to ensure that government and public affairs are conducted in line with the constitution. Casac's Lawson Naidoo said: “To ensure that government and our public affairs are conducted in the spirit that the Constitution envisages and that it is a robust democracy that we are trying to create in South Africa and at the very head of that an independent national prosecuting is very, very important.” OPPOSITION PARTIES WELCOME DECISION Opposition parties have welcomed the ruling reversing President Zuma's appointment of Abrahams as national director of public prosecutions. The Economic Freedom Fighters says the judgment will lead to the restoration of the NPA. The Democratic Alliance's Mmusi Maimane says Ramaphosa now has the opportunity to demonstrate his real commitment to fighting the scourge of corruption. “In the long run as South Africans find, and I have proposed that and I have moved the constitutional amendment to this effect that the head of the national director of public prosecution must, in fact, be appointed by Parliament and not by the president because you can’t be judge and jury in the same game.”