
                                            KwaZulu-Natal is one of the regions that is yet to pronounce which candidate it supports going into the elective conference in less than two weeks.
                                         DURBAN, LIMPOPO - Hundreds of African National Congress (ANC) members in KwaZulu-Natal are expected to nominate who they want to become the party’s next president during their provincial general council which begins on Monday at the Olive Convention Centre in Durban. KwaZulu-Natal is one of the remaining regions that are yet to pronounce which candidate it supports going into the elective conference in less than two weeks. So far, provinces aligned to the so-called premier league have all endorsed Nkosaza Dlamini Zuma but also face impending court challenges surrounding branch nominations and possible vote rigging. Throughout the presidential race KwaZulu-Natal has been seen as a stronghold for Dlamini Zuma after she received public endorsements from the provincial ANC and the women and youth leagues. But she isn’t the only presidential hopeful to hail from KZN, with former premier Zweli Mkhize also throwing his name into the hat. Factionalism in the province has also created an opportunity for frontrunner Cyril Ramaphosa to make inroads in a province viewed as President Jacob Zuma’s stronghold. ANC LIMPOPO TO MAKE DECISION The ANC in Limpopo is set to hold is provincial general council today. Ramaphosa and Dlamini Zuma have both canvased extensively in the province. The ANC Youth League in Limpopo says it still supports former AU chairperson Dlamini Zuma. But the provincial chair and premier Stan Mathabatha has on numerous occasions shown support for Ramaphosa. During a Cosatu rally earlier this year, Mathabatha, in Ramaphosa’s presence, asked why the ANC shouldn't have a president from Limpopo. Four provinces have already shown their support for Ramaphosa, while rival Dlamini-Zuma has so far secured three. Branch delegates in Limpopo will now gather at a lodge in Polokwane to choose their leadership.