The model has been updating KendallJ.com for the last two years, but she has now confirmed she will stop because her 'goals and priorities are changing'. LONDON - Reality star-turned-model Kendall Jenner has decided to quit using her app in 2018. The 22-year-old model has been updating KendallJ.com for the last two years, but Jenner has now confirmed she has taken the "difficult" decision to walk away from the app because her "goals and priorities are changing". In a message to her fans, Jenner explained: "As I look ahead to the next year, my goals and priorities are changing. "I've had an incredible 2+ years connecting with all of you, but I've made the difficult decision to no longer update my app in 2018. I hope you've enjoyed this journey as much as I have, and am looking forward to sharing the next chapter with you. (sic)" Jenner is, perhaps, the most private of the Jenner and Kardashian sisters, despite having more than 100 million followers on social media. This year, the brunette beauty has been romantically linked to the likes of NBA star Blake Griffin and Grammy-nominated rapper A$AP Rocky. However, Jenner also attracted controversy earlier in 2017, when she starred in a Pepsi advert that was subsequently pulled from the air following complaints from viewers. In the advert, Jenner defused tension at a protest by sharing a can of the soft drink with a police officer. But shortly after the advert had aired, it was widely criticised for trivialising serious political demonstrations and was perceived to be especially insensitive towards the Black Lives Matter movement. The Pepsi commercial was even blasted by Bernice King - the daughter of civil rights leader Martin Luther King Jr - who took to Twitter to voice her anger. She wrote: "If only Daddy would have known about the power of Pepsi." After the advert had been pulled, Pepsi said in a statement: "Pepsi was trying to project a global a message of unity, peace and understanding. "Clearly, we missed the mark, and we apologise. We did not intend to make light of any serious issue.