The average dam levels for the province currently stands at 32%, which is 20% less than the previous year. CAPE TOWN - The Western Cape Local Government Department has thanked organisations that have been assisting with drought alleviation in the province. The average dam levels for the province currently stands at 32%, this is 20%  less than the previous year. Areas in the province currently most affected by the drought include Beaufort-West and Kannaland, the City of Cape Town, Bitou and Knysna as well as the Matzikama region on the West Coast. The department's James Brent-Styan said: “We welcome and we thank the support of organisations including agriculture, a sector that is providing fodder relief to the sector that is particularly harshly affected by the drought, as well as people like Gift of the Givers, that are assisting in drilling additional boreholes in the Beaufort West area.” LEVEL SIX WATER RESTRICTIONS The City of Cape Town will introduce level six water restrictions in January. Mayoral Committee member for water and utilities Xanthea Limberg says this is in response to national government imposing further instructions on the province. It will mean households using more than 10,500 litres per month could face fines and penalties. In a notice published in the provincial government gazette, the city says further restrictions are necessary. The new restrictions will mean that non-residential properties will have to reduce consumption by 45%, while agricultural users will have to lower their water use by 60%. The use of borehole water for outdoor purposes is being discouraged, to preserve groundwater. Meanwhile, on Tuesday council approved budget adjustments to fund water projects. Limberg said: “We can adjust our budget to ensure the provision of new water supply and ensure that the water services department operations are not negatively handled.” No watering and irrigation will be allowed from municipal drinking water. Additional reporting by Lindsay Dentlinger.