She has taken to her Instagram account to reflect on the sudden death of Tavon Kaiseen Alleyn, and to call for an end to gun-related crime. LONDON - Chart-topping singer Rihanna has called for an end to gun violence after her cousin was killed on Tuesday. The Bajan star has taken to her Instagram account to reflect on the sudden death of Tavon Kaiseen Alleyn, and to call for an end to gun-related crime. Alongside a picture of them standing together on a beach, Rihanna wrote: "RIP cousin... can't believe it was just last night that I held you in my arms! never thought that would be the last time I felt the warmth in your body!!! Love you always man! (sic)" Details of Alleyn's death remain scarce, but according to Barbados Today, he "was walking through a track in the area of his house when he was approached by a man who shot him multiple times before fleeing the scene". Following the shooting, which is said to have happened at around 7 pm, Alleyne was rushed to a nearby hospital but he later passed away. In addition to her message on Instagram, Rihanna also took to Instagram Stories to post a black background that featured her cousin's handle, @merka_95m, and the caption: "rest up lil cuz (sic)" Meanwhile, a woman named Tanella also shared a photo of Alleyn lying in his hospital bed. She captioned the heartbreaking image: "This was our first Christmas together we clean we decorate and everything!! Tavon I know you was trying to be a better person!! I loveee you soooo muchhhhhhhhh brother omg! (sic)" Despite her plea to end gun violence, Rihanna has previously been accused of glamorising the use of firearms. The 29-year-old star had a tattoo of a gun inked on her body back in 2009, while more recently, she was slammed by activists for stepping out with a purse that was designed to resemble a firearm. RIP cousin... can't believe it was just last night that I held you in my arms! never thought that would be the last time I felt the warmth in your body!!! Love you always man! 😢🙏🏿❤ #endgunviolence A post shared by  badgalriri (@badgalriri) on Dec 26, 2017 at 7:16pm PST 