
                                            Gwede Mantashe has clarified that the branch members may still be allowed to attend this weekend’s conference.
                                         JOHANNESBURG - The High Court in Mahikeng has set aside the Bojanala ANC regional conference and the branch general meetings of 40 branches.  Bojanala is the biggest ANC region in the North West. The total number of delegates from the province is 538, with 270 delegates set to attend the conference.  Disgruntled members went to court claiming the branches were unconstitutionally convened.   At a media briefing ahead of the national conference, ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe confirmed that the party will comply with the court judgment. It was initially thought that the judgment meant the branches would not be able to attend the ANC's 54th national conference set to begin on Saturday at Nasrec.  Mantashe has since clarified that the branch members may still be allowed to attend this weekend’s conference. “What we know is that if you nullify the process to the regional conference, they cannot automatically nullify the processes to the national conference because they had separate BGMs for the national conference.” In KwaZulu-Natal, the provincial executive's application for leave to appeal has been granted and an execution order for the application has been granted which will see the PEC immediately vacating office pending the outcome of the appeal process. Gwede Mantashe says the court cases will have no material meaning for the conference. He says the 27 KZN provincial executive members ordered to vacate office will be allowed into the conference but won’t be able to participate in the voting process. The secretary-general says he doesn’t believe today is a "bad day" for the party with all the court cases, saying there’s nothing wrong with having a judiciary who assists ANC members who feel aggrieved.  The case was one of several legal battles threatening to hamper the ANC's national conference in Nasrec this weekend. 'JUDICIAL OVERREACH' Mantashe does not believe that the court can prevent branch members from attending the national conference. “Delegates to the national conference ... which is a different process, we don’t think it can be impacted by the judgment. Banning an ANC member from participating in other activities is actually judicial overreach.” He says the judgment affects the regional conference, which will have to be reconvened at a later stage. Disputes between competing factions in several provinces have ended up in court ahead of the hotly-contested national conference.