
                                            The governing party has had to deal with legal challenges in provinces, including the Free State, KwaZulu-Natal and the Eastern Cape in recent months.
                                         JOHANNESBURG - As uncertainty looms over the African National Congress (ANC)’s elective conference, there are renewed calls for the organisation to do all it can to ensure it goes ahead without incident. The governing party has had to deal with legal challenges in provinces, including the Free State, KwaZulu-Natal and the Eastern Cape in recent months. Many of the disagreements are around the legitimacy of the leadership in the provinces. The ANC has also had to face allegations of irregularities at branch general meetings which nominate leaders and select delegates to the national conference next month.  The Congress of South African Trade Unions (Cosatu)'s Sdumo Dlamini says the ANC must eliminate possible threats to next month’s conference. “But we’re encouraging the ANC to resolve these disputes and ensure that they eliminate any possibility of any threat to the conference.  “We need that conference, as Cosatu, for the sake of the country to ensure that there’s stability.” Meanwhile, the ANC in KwaZulu-Natal says it is not a coincidence that provinces known to support Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma as the party’s next president have faced a barrage of legal battles this year. Secretary Super Zuma was speaking outside the Pietermaritzburg High Court on Thursday after their lawyers made arguments for leave to appeal. In September, Judge Jerome Mnguni declared the KZN ANC’s 2015 elective conference illegal. Zuma questioned why KZN, the Free State and the Northern Cape have continued to face court battles ahead of the elective conference. Super Zuma addressed dozens of supporters outside court after the proceedings, saying that they are willing to accept whatever outcome. However, Zuma says what they won’t tolerate is members trying to undo democratic processes of the party, making reference to their election at the 2015 conference. Meanwhile, inside court, lawyers representing the applicants Tembeka Ngcukaitobi have argued that the current executive is likely to prolong reaching a conclusion to this matter while frustrating his clients on a political level. The judges listened to arguments about why another court could interpret clause 17 of the ANC constitution which refers to how often conferences can be held. Judgment in the matter has been reserved. Additional reporting by Ziyanda Ngcobo. (Edited by Leeto M Khoza)