
                                            The ANC accuses Mashaba and council Speaker Vasco da Gama of collapsing the city's finances and running it into the ground.
                                         JOHANNESBURG - The African National Congress (ANC) in Johannesburg says it will not give up on its bid to unseat Mayor Herman Mashaba and plans to table a new motion of no confidence in his leadership in the next six months.  Mashaba survived the vote during a council meeting on Thursday night. One hundred and-forty-one members voted against the motion while 121 voted in support of it during a council sitting on Thursday night.  The ANC accuses Mashaba and council Speaker Vasco da Gama of collapsing the city's finances and running it into the ground. The party’s Jolidee Matongo says its disappointed in the Economic Freedom Fighters for voting against the removals of Mashaba and Da Gama. “Despite us putting the facts on the table, they still chose to vote with the DA but in their presentation they did indicate that they are voting against the motion but they are not voting for Mashaba, which is contradictory in terms and they were exposed yesterday.” Mashaba has meanwhile thanked the coalition partner for keeping the ANC out of power in the metro. “They have always put it on record that they will never give this metro back to the corruption ANC and I really appreciate their stance on this.” WATCH: Joburg Mayor Mashaba survives no confidence vote  DA CELEBRATES The Democratic Alliance (DA) is celebrating after two of its mayors survived motions of no confidence. In the Nelson Mandela Bay Metro, the motion to remove Mayor Athol Trollip was proposed by Patriotic Alliance provincial leader Marlon Daniels and seconded by the United Democratic Movement's Mongameli Bobani.  Bobani was removed as deputy mayor through a vote of no confidence earlier this year.  DA leader Mmusi Maimane has hailed the party’s coalitions in key metros. He says in the last 18 months, the Johannesburg and Nelson Mandela Bay administrations have delivered quality services. Meanwhile, in Cape Town, the ANC is planning a motion of no confidence against Mayor Patricia De Lille, but the Speaker of the city says the motion will not be on the agenda when council sits next week.  He says the ANC didn't follow the correct procedures.