The 26-year-old singer and songwriter received his title for services to music and charity by Prince Charles. LONDON - Ed Sheeran said he'd be up for singing at Prince Harry and Meghan Markle's wedding after receiving his MBE on Thursday. The 26-year-old singer and songwriter received his title for services to music and charity by Prince Charles, Harry's father, at a service at Buckingham Palace in London. When asked if he'd like to sing for the 33-year-old prince and the former Suits actress at their ceremony at Windsor Chapel in May 2018, he said: "Yeah, why not." The Perfect hitmaker said the 69-year-old royal was amazed that he was jetting off to New York immediately after to play a concert, and jokingly asked if he's still making lots of money from his record sales. Sheeran laughed: "He was asking me if I was still selling lots of records and I told him I've got a concert in New York tomorrow, and he was quite surprised I was flying after this." The musician was no doubt overcome with emotion as on this day a year ago he sadly lost his grandfather, and he hopes he would have been "pretty proud" of his achievement, seeing as he was a huge fan of the royal family. After the ceremony, he said: "My grandfather was a massive royalist. He had all the commemorative plates and stuff, and he died on this day four years ago, so it's actually quite a nice full circle thing, I guess he'd be pretty proud." Despite breaking numerous records - including becoming the most-streamed artist on Spotify, and topping the Apple Music and iTunes charts with the most popular album, Divide, and song [Shape of You] of 2017 - and winning countless awards during his career spanning more than a decade, Sheeran said that "persistence" has got him where he is. The Thinking Out Loud star downplayed his success and said only "30%" of it is down to his talents as a musician and songwriter. He admitted: "I think it's persistence. I don't have a vast amount of talent compared to other people, I think talent is like 30% of it and persistence, drive and self-belief are the other ones, which I guess are all the same thing."