
                                            Moody’s says newly elected ANC President Cyril Ramaphosa reform priorities, if implemented, would begin to address weakness earlier flagged by the agency.
                                         JOHANNESBURG - Rating agency Moody’s says that Cyril Ramaphosa’s victory at the African National Congress (ANC) national conference opens up the tentative prospect of a shift in policy and a rise in business confidence. In a statement released on Tuesday, Moody’s says Ramaphosa reform priorities, if implemented, would begin to address weakness earlier flagged by the agency. Meanwhile, Economic Development Minister Ebrahim Patel has assured business leaders that the ANC’s policy preference is to de-concentrate markets to ensure economic inclusion. Patel delivered the keynote address at Tuesday morning’s Progressive Business Forum breakfast briefing in Nasrec. Patel emphasized the impact that concentrated markets have on the economy, including slow growth. Patel has been pushing for greater inclusion of smaller businesses. “Our policy preference is very clear; we seek to deconcentrate markets and open up opportunities for more South Africans.” Patel wouldn’t comment on the ANC leadership announcement, and newly elected Treasurer General Paul Mashatile was absent. WATCH: Reactions to the ANC's top 6 news  BUSINESS COMMUNITY ON NEW ANC PRESIDENT Business Leadership South Africa and Nedbank have congratulated Ramaphosa, saying they are ready to work with the new team to develop all sectors of the economy. Nedbank has urged Ramaphosa to address the escalating levels of corruption in the private and public sector. Business leaders are expected to react to Ramaphosa being voted into the governing party's new leadership. While the rand has strengthened since Monday and the markets priced in a Ramaphosa win, the Progressive Business Forum will have its say about what the change in guard will mean for the economy. (Edited by Zamangwane Shange)