
                                            Wilshere, who progressed through Arsenal’s youth system and made his senior debut in 2008, has featured in 175 matches for Arsene Wenger’s side over the last nine years.
                                         LONDON - Midfielder Jack Wilshere is eager to extend his stay at Arsenal and is hopeful of finalising a new deal at the Premier League club in the coming weeks. The England international, who progressed through Arsenal’s youth system and made his senior debut in 2008, has featured in 175 matches for Arsene Wenger’s side over the last nine years. Wilshere is out of contract in June 2018 but is confident that a new deal can be agreed at Arsenal. ”I definitely want to be here,“ Wilshere told Sky Sports News. ”I‘m enjoying my football and I love playing in the Premier League now and I want to help Arsenal get to where they should be. “We just have to sort things out and I‘m sure that will happen in the next couple of weeks and it will be sorted.” Wilshere’s career has been hampered by serious injuries with the latest being a calf injury sustained in April. The Englishman returned to action in August and has since made 15 appearances for Arsenal this campaign. The 25-year-old, who spent last season on loan at Bournemouth, has started two league games this season and said regular game time was his priority, hoping to earn a call-up to Gareth Southgate’s England squad for the 2018 World Cup. “The biggest thing for any footballer, and even more so for me because of the games missed in the past, is that you are playing,” Wilshere added. ”I think I’ve proved to myself that I can play in the Premier League and I trust my body again and that I can affect games. I can have a positive effect on this team and then maybe we’ll see if the England manager picks me. “I‘m just focussed on the game on Friday, I‘m in a good place mentally at the minute. I want to continue improving my form, affecting the team and help to get into the top four and challenge for trophies.” Arsenal, who are fifth in the league, host fierce rivals Liverpool, who are a point and a place ahead, on Friday.