
                                            Patel says an inclusive economy is something the ANC will be focusing on during discussions about policy.
                                         JOHANNESBURG - Economic Development Minister Ebrahim Patel says that economic inclusion remains a priority for the African National Congress (ANC) because it is critical to the country's success.  Patel was addressing business leaders at the Progressive Business Forum breakfast in Nasrec.  He says that the inclusion of all South Africans is widely discussed as it helps formulate policy.  Patel has also reflected on the global economy, its growth and the impact on this country.  “The global crisis essentially brought down possibly the structural rate of global growth and it matters to our economy because we’re particularly trade-exposed. One-third of our GDP is generated from exports.” Minister Patel is focusing on the economy like the other ministers who have addressed business leaders at these breakfasts. Patel says that an inclusive economy is something the ANC will be focusing on during discussions about policy. “It’s an issue that many South Africans are talking about in townships and in boardrooms and it’s one that the conference of the ANC is grappling with as it formulates not only a platform for leaders but also a platform for policies.” Earlier this month, Patel announced proposed changes to the country’s competition legislation that aim to open up markets to new small businesses, particularly black-owned businesses.   WHAT IS CONCENTRATION? Patel says that economic concentration has created some serious challenges in the country. He says that de-concentrating markets will increase economic inclusion. Patel says there are a number of markets that are highly concentrated in South Africa and that these include sectors like energy, financial services, infrastructure, pharmaceuticals, mining and transport.  The minister explains what concentration means. “Concentration can potentially have negative effects. It can raise prices so you have got too little competition, it can result in lower economic growth.”  Patel says this can also stunt innovation, investment and its associated with higher levels of inequalities. (Edited by Leeto M Khoza)