
                                            Steinhoff says Markus Jooste resigned as CEO with immediate effect after the discovery of new information which prompted the company's supervisory board to for an 'independent investigation'.
                                         JOHANNESBURG - Shares in Steinhoff Africa retail are still down after the CEO of its parent company, Markus Jooste, resigned  in the light of developments around accounting irregularities. Steinhoff's South African shares fell 60% to a seven-year low of R17,56 as the JSE opened, recovering later to around R22. The company is registered in Johannesburg and Germany. The international body has decided to postpone the release of its full-year results as an investigation continues. Steinhoff International says Jooste resigned as CEO with immediate effect after the discovery of new information which prompted the company's supervisory board to ask consultants Pricewaterhouse Coopers  to perform an "independent investigation". Jooste had been at the helm of Steinhoff International Holdings for nearly 20 years. Billionaire Christo Wiese, Steinhoff's largest shareholder and chairman has taken over on an interim basis. Steinhoff has been under investigation for suspected accounting irregularities by the state prosecutor in Oldenburg, Germany since 2015. Steinhoff says this is a tax case relating to whether revenues were booked correctly and taxable profit declared. Nearly R200 million of market value has been wiped off the value of the JSE, following allegations of financial irregularities at furniture retailer Steinhoff. German prosecutors say a criminal team is continuing to examine documents seized with confirmation that the investigation involves suspicion that Steinhoff overstated revenues at various subsidiaries. They say four current and former managers are under investigation and they are not able to disclose when the probe will be concluded. There are concerns that the group's total assets may also have been overstated, with the release of the company's full-year results now suspended. It's understood that the JSE has been in talks with Steinhoff to try and obtain answers about the apparent accounting irregularities.