
                                            Executive director of the Kathrada Foundation, Neeshan Balton, says the decision by Trump is an attempt to legitimise the illegal occupation of Palestine by Israel.
                                         CAPE TOWN - The Ahmed Kathrada Foundation has strongly condemned US President Donald Trump’s recognition of Jerusalem as the capital of Israel.  The organisation says the decision by trump is an attempt to legitimise the illegal occupation of Palestine by Israel.  The consequences of such a move is likely to end all attempts at peace talks between Israel and Palestine. Trump tweeted that it is time to “officially recognise Jerusalem as the capital of Israel” and that he would be directing the US State Department to begin preparations to move the American Embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem. Executive director of the Kathrada Foundation, Neeshan Balton, says the decision by Trump is an attempt to legitimise the illegal occupation of Palestine by Israel. “The consequences of such a move is likely to end all attempts at peace talks between Israel and Palestine. It will also embolden right-wing reactionaries who refuse to recognise Israeli occupation for what it is.” Balton added: “The recognition of all of Jerusalem as the capital of Israel legitimises its theft of land, demolition of Palestinian homes, its revoking of residency permits, its human rights abuses and its attacks on religious freedom and holy sites.  “Jerusalem is the heart of Christianity, Islam and Judaism. But Palestinian Christians, Muslims and Jews cannot enter Jerusalem without permission from Israeli forces. Recognising Jerusalem as the capital of Israel could mean that occupation forces are emboldened into furthering restrictions in this regard.” The foundation has expressed its support to Palestinians. “We also welcome the comments of Chief Mandla Mandela, who condemned Trump’s decision as ‘delusional’. "Trump’s decision goes against international consensus and derails any attempts at implementing a two-state solution. We therefore call on the South African government to denounce Trump’s decision in the strongest possible manner and reaffirm its commitment to the Palestinian struggle.” (Edited by Shimoney Regter)