
                                            From beauty queens to data leaks; these are the top EWN stories of the year.
                                         JOHANNESBURG - 2017 saw the fall of a 90-year-old African dictator, the rise of Hollywood women and men against sexual harassment and a lot of crazy, funny and warm, fuzzy moments in-between. Eyewitness News has been on the frontlines of most of what made headlines locally and internationally this year.  These are some of the most read stories of the year on our site: Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters crowned Miss Universe 
                                                                  Twenty-two-year-old Business management graduate Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters made history in November when she was crowned Miss Universe when she represented South Africa at the pageant. Nel-Peters is the first woman in post-apartheid South Africa to be crowned. The last South African Miss Universe was Margaret Gardiner who won the title in 1978. WhatsApp finally allows users to recall messages 
                                                                  Sending a WhatsApp message to someone who's not supposed to see it is enough to make you want to have the world open up and swallow you. Thankfully, the messaging service, to all our rescue, added the ability to recall a message potentially before the receiver sees it. Check if you were hit by massive SA data leak 
                                                                  A massive data breach that saw the personal details, including names and ID numbers, of 33 million South Africans was uncovered in October. Citizens were encouraged to check whether or not their records were leaked in the breach by entering their email into the Have I Been Pwned? website. Meet Zimbabwe's new first lady Auxilia Mnangagwa 
                                                                  After 20 years of disGrace, Zimbabwe was introduced to its new first lady in Auxilia Mnangagwa, after Emmerson Mnangagwa was inaugurated as the nation's leader following Rober Mugabe's resignation. The interest in First Lady Mnangagwa is probably a mixture of curiosity, welcoming change and the desire to see a woman who won't interfere with her husband's office. Zuma's terse response to Ramaphosa's Khwezi comments 
                                                                  Newly elected ANC President Cyril Ramaphosa was put on the hot seat while on the campaign trail when he came to the Radio 702 Town Hall series with Karima Brown. Ramaphosa, like the other presidential candidates before him who'd appeared at Town Hall, was grilled. Brown asked him whether or not he believed Fezeka 'Khwezi' Kuzwayo was raped by President Jacob Zuma, to which he answered. “Yes, I would believe that.” Zuma responded through a statement from the Office of the Presidency. "The rape allegations against President Zuma were properly considered by a Judge of the High Court. Having evaluated the totality of the evidence, the court acquitted the President of the rape charges," the statement said.