
                                            The Gauteng ANC’s Nkenke Kekana says while the leadership process is important and the province is pleased with the nominations, there’s more to the conference.
                                         JOHANNESBURG - The Gauteng African National Congress (ANC) says that its general council has resolved that the party’s national leadership needs to be increased with an additional deputy president and deputy secretary general. The provincial ANC nominated presidential hopeful Cyril Ramaphosa as its preferred candidate to become the next ANC president as the party heads to its elective conference later this month. Ramaphosa won by a landslide, receiving 374 of the votes and Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma 64. The Gauteng ANC’s Nkenke Kekana says that while the leadership process is important and the province is pleased with the nominations, there’s more to the conference. He says the PGC resolved that the national leadership should have two deputy presidents and two secretary-generals. Kekana says this will strengthen Luthuli House and help to better monitor and implement ANC policies. He also says the PGC also resolved to look into a combination electoral system where voters can directly elect presidents, premiers and mayors. MPUMALANGA With exactly two weeks to go until the ANC’s national elective conference gets underway, Dlamini Zuma is trailing Ramaphosa with presidential nominations. The ANC in Mpumalanga on Friday endorsed Dlamini Zuma to take over as president of the party. Dlamini Zuma received 123 nominations while her rival Ramaphosa was short of just six votes at 117. The party held its provincial general council at the Mbombela stadium. A song titled "Unity" was the order of the day. Some 223 delegates abstained by writing unity on the nomination forms. Now with those votes consolidated, Dlamini Zuma has been named the preferred candidate but provincial chair David Mabuza says a vote for her at the elective conference in two weeks will be a fractional decision. “I’ll take this view of the province to other provinces and we’ll discuss with them.” Mabuza is calling for thorough negotiations in an effort to elect a credible and united leadership at the conference.