Keagan Dolly said that he's eagerly awaiting to see who Shakes Mashaba's replacement as Bafana Bafana coach will be. CAPE TOWN Bafana Bafana and Montpellier forward Keagan Dolly doesn t have a preference over who should take over as national team coach but has told EWN Sport, in an exclusive video interview, that he's disappointed at Shakes Mashaba s axing as head coach of the national team.Dolly was speaking just over a week after his arrival in France following a protracted move from Champions League winners and PSL Champions, Mamelodi Sundowns, in a deal just shy of 2 million euros.Since his arrival, Montpellier have won three times and lost to league leaders Monaco, as he's started the last three games for the club who are currently 11th in Ligue 1.Mashaba was dismissed by South African Football Association (Safa) for gross misconduct after he publicly lashed out at his bosses following their World Cup qualifying victory over Senegal late last year.The 24-year-old, who cut a relaxed figure at a hotel in the city which is his temporary base, said that he's eagerly awaiting to see who Mashaba's replacement is. I can t say which coach they should pick, it s not my place, but there are a few coaches that I d like to work with, that s for SAFA to decide. With the Shakes Mashaba story that s going on, it s unfortunate for the coach. I built a good relationship with him, he s a good coach and we worked well (together). It s just sad to see this whole thing that s going on with him. In a protracted transfer, Sundowns and Dolly were at odds over the buy-out clause in his contract that saw the matter go before the Premier Soccer League's (PSL) Dispute Resolution Chamber as the French club and Greek giants Olympiacos expressed their interest in signing him. That situation was resolved and saw Dolly's management apologise to the club as they parted amicably, but he said that he was fairly relaxed about the length of time it took for the transfer to happen.WATCH: Keagan Dolly on Shakes Mashaba and Bafana Bafana What I told myself is that if it s meant to happen that it will happen and I will get to move overseas. Obviously, it was frustrating, I was supposed to move last year in August already but it didn t go my way. I m just happy that it finally happened, I just had to be professional about the whole saga that was happening with Sundowns, but the teams came to (an) agreement and I m here. It s been my dream since I started playing football and I m just glad that I got the opportunity to showcase my talent on an international level, just representing the country and myself. Dolly s grateful for Montpellier's desire to sign him and said that he'll be looking at following in the footsteps of other big names to have played at the club.WATCH: Keagan Dolly on France move and why Montpellier They were willing to pay the amount that Sundowns wanted and it showed that they were really interested in me. Players like (Olivier) Giroud played for this team and they went on to bigger teams, you know Eric Cantona (also) played here. And I just thought that it was a good decision to come here and try and make a name for myself and hopefully get a move to a bigger team. (Edited by Leeto M Khoza)