Nine years after their daughter died in her Palm Mews flat in Woodstock, Rochelle Naidoo s parents finally felt a sense of justice. Rochelle s boyfriend Faizel Hendricks was convicted by the Malmesbury Regional Court in 2014. But the conviction could not be credited to the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) nor a State prosecutor. Instead, it came through the tireless persistence of Rochelle s family, hundreds of thousands of rands, private advocates, forensic experts and a private prosecution. Hendricks claimed he was in Naidoo s apartment on 28 June 2005 when he saw her grab his unlicensed .38 Special revolver and shoot herself. At the time, Hendricks was arrested and charged with Naidoo s murder, but he pleaded not guilty. The case was withdrawn by the Director of Public Prosecutions because the evidence was not strong enough to secure a conviction. A judicial inquest found that the cause of death was inconclusive. Her parents were certain that their daughter had not taken her own life. They decided to launch a private prosecution - a rare and costly exercise in South Africa. They had to pay a considerable amount of money as security and laid out even more to hire senior counsel and forensic specialists. Nearly a decade later, it was all worth it as Hendricks was sent to jail. It is precisely cases such as these that veteran advocate Gerrie Nel would point to when justifying his decision to give up a 36-year career at the NPA to join AfriForum s private prosecutions unit. That and the litany of cases that have not been pursued for political reasons despite mountains of evidence against corrupt officials. Sections 7 and 8 of the Criminal Procedure Act allow for private prosecutions under South African law, but it is not quite so simple. In order to bring a private prosecution, a certificate of nolle prosequi must be issued by the Director of Public Prosecutions. This document states that a decision has been taken based on the available evidence not to prosecute the case. Once issued, a private prosecutor has three months to institute a prosecution. This can be initiated through a summons being issued by the clerk of the court. The private prosecutor must then provide security for the costs of the prosecution and would have to pay a deposit. This can amount to a huge value, as it would cover the costs of the stenographer, the orderly, translators and all the other running costs of the courtroom that the State would usually cover. As well as vast resources of money, they would also need plenty of time as the wheels of justice turn slowly. There are obvious merits to this process. It allows every citizen to pursue justice and ensure that no one is above the law. It also ensures that corruption cannot go unchecked, particularly if those who are guilty wield great power and influence. Crucially, it can correct instances of selective prosecution that are becoming increasingly evident within the NPA. However, there is the risk of an entirely private parallel prosecuting service being run in conflict with the NPA. Essentially, you could have personal agendas being pursued and a unit such as the one affiliated to AfriForum could pick and choose which cases it wanted to throw its energy and money behind. This would be greeted with cynicism and undermine the integrity of the work of the unit and the rule of law in its entirety. In truth, there is already a parallel prosecutions and investigative capacity being run in private in the country. Almost all of the big auditing firms have lured retired detectives and prosecutors to the corporate space where they carry out investigations, assisted by private investigators. They put together dockets, take their own statements and even assist under-resourced police officers with cellphones and transport. When the matters are ready to go to trial, the entire case is delivered wrapped with a big bow. Ultimately, those cases are still brought by the State and led by the NPA.For all its faults, foremost among them the embarrassing attempted prosecution of Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan, it remains imperative that the NPA is the only authority which can make decisions about who the State chooses to prosecute. This underscores the principle enshrined in the Constitution that all are equal before the law. It ensures that order is maintained in society.AfriForum could face a profound constitutional problem as it sets out to prosecute privately. A court decision about camels could decide the viability of the unit. In 2010, two camels were slaughtered during a religious ritual in Lenasia, south of Johannesburg. The throat of one of the camels was slit eight times, while the other animal had its throat sliced three times. The NPA declined to prosecute those responsible for what the NSPCA alleged was cruel and inhumane treatment. But the NPA refused to issue a nolle prosequi certificate. This is because in law, only a private person can bring a private prosecution. In law, a juristic person is recognised as an organisation or entity, and a juristic person is forbidden from bringing such an application. The legislation goes even further and specifies a very narrow definition of which individuals can bring such private prosecutions. In other words, you have to personally be directly affected in a very specific way if you want to pursue this route. The NSPCA turned to the High Court to challenge the constitutionality of Section 7 of the Criminal Procedure Act. It did this on the basis that the law irrationally differentiates between juristic persons and natural persons. The High Court concluded that while there is discrimination between juristic persons and natural persons, the discrimination is not unfair. The NSPCA took the case on appeal to the Supreme Court of Appeal (SCA) and it came to the same conclusion as the High Court, so they then went to the highest court in the land in Braamfontein. The Constitutional Court overturned the lower courts decisions and gave the NSPCA the right to bring a private prosecution. But crucially, it didn t actually change the law on the vexed issue of whether or not an organisation or entity could bring such a prosecution. This effectively means that the SCA appeals ruling stands unchallenged. In practice, AfriForum as an organisation or entity can t legally bring a private prosecution. They would have to seek out certain individuals who have been materially affected by specific crimes and then throw the weight and money of the organisation behind them. This could mean that the fledgling prosecutions unit could face a constitutional challenge before it can even get busy doing the dirty work of pursuing justice. With his bucket loads of experience, the prosecutor known as The Bulldog may find his new challenge far more complex than he anticipated. But Nel, a veteran wrestler with years of experience navigating the political machinations of the NPA and out-maneuvering some of the country s most savvy criminals, should find himself well prepared for the fight that lies ahead.Follow Mandy Wiener on Twitter: @mandywiener