A towering figure, his fist in the air, he emerged from the gates of Victor Verster Prison in Cape Town, signifying the end of an era. CAPE TOWN Today marks 27 years since late president Nelson Mandela was released from prison after serving 27 years on Robben Island and Pollsmoor Prison.Madiba only served one term as president and stepped down in June 1999.A towering figure, his fist in the air, he emerged from the gates of Victor Verster Prison in Cape Town, signifying the end of an era. The first sight of him followed by his address at Cape Town City Hall, served as a moment South Africa stood together in hope. Although the huge crowds gathered at the Cape Town Grand Parade led to delays in him appearing on the balcony, the people waited patiently to hear Mandela speak.The first question came from a television journalist from ITN in London. Mandela was asked how he felt as a free man . Before I respond to that question, I think it proper for us to apologise for the failure of the press conference yesterday. Our marshals did exceptionally good work but the crowd was too big and it became impossible for us to keep to our programmes and we very much regret that we could not fulfil that engagement. &quot;Having said that, I want to assure you that I m absolutely excited to be out. I m also excited to have the opportunity of addressing you, because throughout these difficult years in prison, the press, both locally and foreign, have been a brick to us. &quot;I think it was originally the intention of the government that we should be forgotten and that their leaders, leaders of the homelands, Bantustans and all those who work within government structures, should be built up and that we should be forgotten. It was the press that kept the memory of those who had been imprisoned for offences which they committed in the course of their political activities it was the press that never forgot us. And we are, therefore, indebted to you and I m happy to be with you this morning. The Nelson Mandela Foundation has encouraged South Africans to apply Madiba s humility, tact and penchant for dialogue to face the challenges the country faces.The foundation will on Monday launch the Nelson Mandela Centenary programme to mark 100 years since his birth.(Edited by Shimoney Regter)