The former Kaizer Chiefs coach's only international experience is with Congo, who he coached in 1995 and 1996. JOHANNESBURG Former Orlando Pirates coach Muhsin Ertugral has exclusively told EWN Sport he would love to get the opportunity to coach Bafana Bafana.Ertugral has been available since resigning as Pirates coach in November, following the team's 6-1 hiding by Supersport United.The former Kaizer Chiefs coach's only international experience is with Congo, who he coached in 1995 and 1996.He says as a Bafana coach, you get to work with the cream of the crop in the country. I think that any coach would love to do that. You have the possibility to choose the best players that you have at your disposal in the country. And I think in South Africa, myself, I ve produced more than 60 players from the youth section in professional football and lot of them became international. He says no coach could ever say no to an opportunity to coach a national team. And for any coach it s a privilege and honour and obviously these decisions have to be taken by respective organisations. Ertugral says his knowledge and experience in the Premier Soccer League puts him in good stead. The PSL has its own demands and it s not easy to coach a PSL team, and obviously the national team has its own demands. I think knowing the structure and multi-cultural background, it s a bit easier for any coach who has been involved in coaching in South Africa. He says he received a technical director role at Turkish giants Galatasaray, but turned it down to stay in South Africa. Obviously the name is always there and lately Galatasaray was mentioned, but not as a coach.&quot;He says he doesn t want to disrespect the South African Football Association by claiming that he fits their criteria for the Bafana Bafana job. It s very unnecessary to pressure anyone. Actually, the whole thing at the moment is that what you can follow on the media and have pressure. I want to stand as a person and say this is very disrespectful for the organisation. (Edited by Leeto M Khoza)