The 26-year-old utility back and Ali Williams were charged for attempting to buy three vials of cocaine from drug dealers. MELBOURNE - Former Wallaby James O Connor will be suspended by Toulon and may not have his contract extended following his detention by Paris police for an alleged attempt to buy cocaine, the French club s president Mourad Boudjellal has said.The 26-year-old utility back, capped 44 times for Australia, and former All Blacks lock Ali Williams were charged for attempting to buy three vials of cocaine from drug dealers on Saturday, a judicial source told Reuters.The pair were released on Sunday, with Williams expected to appear in court at a later date and O Connor to pay a fine for cocaine possession. He won t escape a suspension, Comic book tycoon Boudjellal told French newspaper Le Figaro. He s a kid with troubles, he s 26. I m not going to kill him either. Whatever decision I take, I will take everything into account, and I ll try not to damage the kid. Boudjellal said O Connor s brush with the police had reopened the debate as to the extension of his contract. We re not at a stage where we would extend it. We ll try to manage this season. But I do not want to overburden him, he said.Williams, a World Cup winner capped 77 times, was suspended by his Paris club Racing Metro over the weekend.Boudjellal said he felt cocaine use had become common in French rugby. It s my personal feeling, I do not have any evidence but I m under the impression that it s invited itself into the rugby milieu because alcohol is not enough anymore, he said. And that s a bad thing. We had the alcohol step, now it s a step above because cocaine is festive, it disappears easily. It has to stop. So I want to know if it s an isolated case or if there are other players who like to party. Boudjellal s comments come weeks after the club signed Ben Barba, who was suspended for 12 matches by Australia s National Rugby League for testing positive for cocaine during celebrations with his championship-winning team Cronulla Sharks last year.