Southern Kings coach Deon Davids has named prop Schalk Ferreira as the side&#8217;s on captain for the Super Rugby season. JOHANNESBURG - Southern Kings coach Deon Davids has named prop Schalk Ferreira as the side s captain for the Super Rugby season.The 33-year-old is one of the most senior players in the squad, having amassed a total of 42 Super Rugby caps since making his debut for the Stormers in 2007.Ferreira has previously featured for French club Toulouse, represented the SA Schools team in 2001, and also gained a cap in a World XV side in 2014.Davids said about his new captain: I m pleased to announce that Schalk Ferreira will be our captain for our Super Rugby campaign in 2017. Schalk is a great ambassador for the Southern Kings franchise. He s an experienced Super Rugby player that wore the Kings jersey through different campaigns and battles with pride and honour. He worked extremely hard during the off-season and was a good example for young and old players. He stood out as a natural leader on and off the field during our pre-season. He is well-respected and accepted as a leader among the coaching staff and players, Davids continued to sing his captain s praises. He will be surrounded by a strong leadership group that will drive the team s systems, discipline and culture throughout the season. I just want to wish him good luck. He must know that he has got all of our support in assisting him to be a successful captain and to enjoy his campaign this Super Rugby season. The new captain expressed his excitement at leading the Southern Kings in the new season. It is always an honour and a pleasure to represent the Southern Kings. Now to be given the responsibility of leading as captain is an added honour one I carry with great pride, Ferreira said. It will be one of my key responsibilities to lead from the front and ensure that we make the jersey, the franchise, our fans and the entire province of the Eastern Cape proud. The Southern Kings begin their Vodacom Super Rugby clash with an encounter against Argentinean side, the Jaguares, on 25 February 2017.