Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan says price collusion should and will be stamped out in any South African market, whether it&#8217;s banking or bread. JOHANNESBURG - Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan says price collusion should and will be stamped out in any South African market, whether it s banking or bread. Gordhan delivered his 2017 Budget Speech in Parliament on Wednesday afternoon, as government looks to crack down on anti-competitive behaviour with a raft of new regulations. Last week, the Competition Commission announced it had found that 17 local and international banks colluded to fix the rand-dollar exchange rate. The minister says Treasury notes those findings, adding a mechanism has been put in place to stop the practice. As we ve seen recently with the Competition Commission investigation, there s evidence of collusive and greedy culture at trading desks and banks. It s precisely to deal with such abuses that we ve proposed a dedicated market conduct regulator. WATCH: The 2017 Budget in 60 seconds He says there also needs to be transformation at financial institutions. I m pleased to announce that we ll work with partners at Nedlac. We ve requested that a financial summit takes place in 2017 to consider further transformation in the sector. In his speech, the minister also announced a new tax bracket for super-earners of 45% as well as a fuel levy hike of 30 cents per litre and excise duty increases for tobacco and alcohol.39 cents added to the price of petrol &amp; new ideas around sugar tax #Budget2017. Follow our live blog for details https://t.co/tPWR4rFKSx pic.twitter.com/08uC9Yx5xVThe bulk of the budget goes to debt servicing, with education getting the next biggest slice of the budget pie.Gordhan told the House that this was a strong budget. Our financial situation is constrained but we ve still produced a credible budget and there s a lot of money in the system that we could use better. The lion s share of social spending goes to education this year. Blow by blow details here https://t.co/tPWR4rFKSx #Budget2017 pic.twitter.com/HVVnhwGoAc(Edited by Zamangwane Shange)