The Save South Africa convenor says he hopes Thursday will be President Jacob Zuma&#8217;s last State of the Nation Address. CAPE TOWN/JOHANNESBURG - Save South Africa convenor Sipho Pityana says he hopes Thursday will be President Jacob Zuma s last State of the Nation Address (Sona).Pityana has addressed hundreds of people at St George's Cathedral in Cape Town where Save SA presented its so-called Real State of the Nation Address .The group aims to give a voice to ordinary citizens who are calling for a corruption-free government.A packed St George's Cathedral erupts in cheers of support when Pityana shouts Zuma must go! Pityana told the crowd he hopes that President Zuma's leadership comes to an end soon.He adds the country has lost the majority of its economic gains since Zuma came to power and that the president's handling of the deaths of 94 psychiatric patients in Gauteng showed a lack of compassion for his people.#SaveSA Sipho Pityana says President Jacob #Zuma doesn&#39;t enjoy the confidence of the masses. MM pic.twitter.com/FAdcPrB1bqPityana says he does not expect anything new from Zuma on Thursday evening. We expect him to pretend that there s going to be a sense of urgency to deal with problems, that we ve been facing as a country, that have been deteriorating over the period since he took over as president. Pityana says Save SA will not be at Parliament on Thursday as they do not want to hear anymore lies. SAVE SA ACCUSED OF PUSHING POLITICAL AGENDA Meanwhile, a group of protesters have marched on a &quot;Save SA'&quot; gathering in Cape Town, accusing the organisation of pushing a political agenda.The organisation was formed last year and has been leading calls for Zuma to resign in the wake of the state capture allegations and subsequent release of the Public Protector's report on the matter.WATCH: Angry protesters chase off Save SA campaigner Sipho Pityana#SaveSA A group of ANC supporters showing their support for Zuma. MM pic.twitter.com/ulmuuu8RzuOne of the protesters says they are not convinced about the intentions of Save SA, Pityana and others. The people talking about President Zuma seem to have a political agenda. Right now hundreds of people will be retrenched by Pityana s company. Why doesn t he say anything about those people. Protesters have accused members of #SaveSA of &#39;selling out&#39; CA pic.twitter.com/DE3Y75n1pE(Edited by Zamangwane Shange)