Gauteng Premier David Makhura says he will spend the next two years bringing justice to the Esidimeni victims. JOHANNESBURG Gauteng Premier David Makhura has announced that memorial stones will be put up at Freedom Park in Pretoria in honour of the victims of the Life Esidimeni tragedy.The premier is currently delivering his State of the Province Address (Sopa) in Randfontein.Over 100 people died after being transferred from the Gauteng facility to several unlicensed NGOs.Health MEC Qedani Mahlangu resigned over the tragedy. Makhura says he will spend the next two years bringing justice to the Esidimeni victims.&quot;The public health system has suffered severe reputational damage. To keep standing up and saying our public health system is doing well when it can't help the most vulnerable in our society, we need a fresh approach to re-look at everything we have been doing.&quot;He says the premier's office has also appointed an advisory council on mental health to improve mental health in the country.&quot;Mental health patients across our province are prioritised because they are citizens who too deserve to be cared for by a compassionate government.&quot;GAUTENG SCHOOL PLACEMENT The premier has also instructed Gauteng Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi to come up with a plan to ensure that online registration for the 2018 academic year runs more smoothly.&quot;I want to repeat that we have heard all these concerns. We are addressing them. We are dealing with them.&quot;Several learners were not able to be allocated to a school due to late registration and hiccups with the process.EFF PROTESTS OUTSIDEEconomic Freedom Fighters (EFF) supporters are protesting outside the Randfontein Stadium. Dozens of EFF supporters, some holding white crosses seeming to represent the mentally ill patients who died after being transferred from Life Esidimeni, are trying to gain access to the premises and have partially damaged a part of the wall. A police nyala is parked right next to the gate in efforts to block the red berets from entering. The supporters have thrown rocks at the nyala and kicked police vehicles passing through. The supporters have refused to speak to the media.#GPSOPA2017 EFF protestors blocking police from driving through. They are outside the stadium in Randfontein where Makhura is speaking. MR pic.twitter.com/Uk8l2f5BOz#GPSOPA These EFF supporters say they want the premier to address them too. MK pic.twitter.com/2iVPyAijuuSome EFF supporters outside #GPSOPA. @MasaKekana pic.twitter.com/kwj271tYyw(Edited by Tamsin Wort)