President Jacob Zuma says Julius Malema and his party members are angry at the ANC because the now EFF leader was expelled. JOHANNESBURG/ CAPE TOWN - After another chaotic start to parliamentary proceedings, President Jacob Zuma says what happened in the house is not a reflection of the entire country s character. Zuma addressed the New Age Breakfast in Cape Town on Friday morning. He spoke about Thursday night s violence in the chamber. I think it is a reflection of a few kind of people, like some parties in Parliament a while ago, those people only represent 6% of the nation. It s not like an overwhelming feeling. Zuma says Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader Julius Malema and his party members are angry at the African National Congress (ANC) after he was expelled in 2012 for bringing the party into disrepute. They must be trying their level best to fight back but they don t know how. If you were elected by the people of this country to represent them in Parliament, I doubt the voters would say there should be no debate under democratic society and we should frustrate debate. The President says the EFF is simply frustrating debate .He says the EFF is denying South Africans their democratic right to debate important matters. And yet you are calling yourself a democrat, a person who respects the Constitution but you fail to respect and appreciate the rights of the citizens of this country to hear a debate out the country. But the EFF s perceptions of him are not a true reflection of the how other citizens see him. My view is that at times we take very useless things and make them major discussions instead of discussing the real things. The fact that we make Parliament not to talk and undermine the choice of the majority of this country because you have your own feelings, I think it s a misplaced kind of vision; in fact, there is no vision at all. [GALLERY] Sona 2017 in picturesZUMA'S SPEECHAfter another night of security personnel being used to remove Members of Parliament (MPs) from the House with fists flying and heated exchanges between party members and Speaker Baleka Mbete, President Zuma spent a large part of his speech on the economy and the need for radical economic change.EFF MPs fought back as they were forcefully ejected from the chamber after holding up proceedings for nearly an hour, accusing Zuma of being a constitutional delinquent .Last year the Constitutional Court found that Zuma breached his oath of office in its findings on the Nkandla scandal, Parliament was also found guilty of failing to hold him to account.WATCH: Sona 2017 descends into chaosInvestors and analysts are going to be going through the president s language about the economy on Thursday night.He spoke about the need for radical economic change, about how white people still dominate the economy and says the you see this in the household income statistics. At least five times more than black households, according to Statistics South Africa, the situation with regards to the ownership of the economy also mirrors that of household income. 'SA'S ECONOMY STARTING TO GROW'But Zuma does say he believes our economy is starting to grow.And he s congratulated the people involved in reaching an agreement on the minimum wage. We congratulate the deputy president at Nedlac and the team for this milestone and wish them well for work that still needs to be done. But his speech was overshadowed by the violent removal of the EFF and the sight of the tussles between them and the parliamentary protection service officials.ANC PEOPLE'S ASSEMBLY After Zuma addressed the nation, he went straight to an ANC event at the Grand Parade where he was received by supporters.ANC supporters reacted with anger as they watched EFF MPs disrupt Zuma s address.Some of them left the parade to go deal with the EFF prompting ANC leaders to calm tensions.As soon as the president finished addressing the nation, he went straight to the ANC gathering where he was received with cheers and ululation.After indirectly lashing out at the EFF for disrupting him, he told supporters what the priority for the ANC would be and thanked ANC members for their support.WATCH: Adorable 12-year-old praise singer steals the show at #Sona2017(Edited by Winnie Theletsane)