Women and Men Against Child Abuse say child pornography has been ignored for too long in South Africa. JOHANNESBURG - Woman and Men Against Child Abuse say the sentencing of an East Rand man convicted of rape will expose the widespread threat and production of child pornography.Warren Troy Knoop, a salesperson from Ekurhuleni, has been handed 32 life sentences and 170 years in prison for crimes including the possession and distribution of child pornography.Knoop pleaded guilty to 870 charges including rape. He had admitted that his first victim was a year old when he first fondled her.Women and Men Against Child Abuse s Miranda Friedman says child pornography has been ignored for too long in South Africa. Child pornography, which has not been seriously seen enough in our country, has been seen as a victimless crime and as a soft-porn image kind of related which does not look at victims and child victims seriously. She believes the sentence has sent out a strong message to other perpetrators. We have been monitoring this case, creating pressure and creating social awareness around this case. We re extremely relieved today and think it s a powerful sentence which has also sent out a strong message. Friedman says while Knoop can apply for parole after 25 years, the organisation wants to make sure he never gets out of jail.At the same time, Childline says the heavy sentence handed down to Knoop is reason to celebrate as such crimes remain among the most under-reported.Childline's Dumisile Nala says that while sexual crimes against children remain a matter of concern in the country, many cases still go unreported. It s very important that cases of sexual abuse or abuse of children that are reported are managed properly so that justice can take its course. It doesn t matter, be it one incident. She says perpetrators deserve the harshest sentences as the scars of abuse in childhood cause the biggest damage in adult life. The impact of abuse is long lasting. We cannot say it was only a few months-old-baby - they will never know . The impact of that stays on in their being and it may come up one way or another when they grow up. Nala says while this sentence is a step in the right direction -the battle continues in many households.(Edited by Winnie Theletsane)