The provincial party at the weekend defended its decision to nominate the former Eskom CEO to fill a vacancy in Parliament. JOHANNESBURG As confusion continues over whether or not former Eskom CEO Brian Molefe is a member of the African National Congress (ANC) in good standing, the party in the North West says there will be a press briefing on Monday to clear the air.The provincial party released a statement at the weekend, defending its decision to nominate the former Eskom CEO to fill a vacancy in the National Assembly.Molefe left Eskom last year under a cloud after he was implicated in the Public Protector's state of the capture report.It found that he had communicated regularly with one of the Gupta brothers and had visited the controversial family s compound in Saxonwold 19 times, while they were negotiating to buy a coal mine that supplies Eskom. When Parliament confirmed that Molefe would be sworn in after he was nominated by the ANC in the North West, questions were raised over which branch he belongs to.The ANC in the province said Molefe is an ANC member in good standing of Ward 29 in the Madibeng Municipality.But Abdullah Milanzi, who claims to be the chairperson of the branch, says they have no records of Molefe. Mr. Molefe was never a member of our branch actually. But Bethuel Mmutle, who the provincial party says is the legitimate chairperson of the branch, says Molefe is a member in good standing. I can confirm that he s a member of Ward 29. He s been a member of Ward 29 from 2011. The provincial party maintains it followed the right process to put Molefe on the list to fill the vacancy in the National Assembly.GAUTENG ANC 'ASTONISHED'The ANC in Gauteng has called the move to nominate Molefe as a Member of Parliament astonishing.ANC chief whip in Gauteng Brian Hlongwa says Molefe has some explaining to do. We had the release of the state capture [report]. Brian Molefe on his own resigned for whatever reason and all of a sudden how do you resign under such circumstances and then we re told that you re now going to be sworn in as a Member of Parliament? (Edited by Leeto M Khoza)