Premier David Makhura says he has ordered his DG to institute appropriate action to deal with the ombudsman&#8217;s recommendations. JOHANNESBURG - The director general in Gauteng Premier David Makhura s office is on Thursday expected to visit NGOs that housed the now deceased 94 psychiatric patients who had been transferred from Life Healthcare Esidimeni while the remaining patients will be moved to public healthcare facilities across the province from Thursday morning.In his report, which was released on Wednesday, the Health Ombudsman found that former Gauteng Health MEC Qedani Mahlangu and other senior officials in the department rushed to move over 1,300 patients from Esidimeni to the NGOs that were later found to be operating illegally.Mahlangu resigned on Tuesday night, just hours before the ombudsman s report was released. Professor Malegapuru Makgoba says he is now waiting for the relevant parties to implement his recommendations. Only if I m unhappy like everybody else that actions are not being taken, I will complain to the minster - that is allowed by law. If my recommendations and action is not being taken I can complain to the minister that s all I can do. Makgoba says it s not within his mandate to determine whether there was a cover up on Mahlangu s part, especially the evidence that more people in fact died. She stuck to her story that even when I asked on 29 November how many people had died, she said 40 on the record and under oath. My role was not to second guess people, my role was to take the evidence and interpret it as I see it rather than bringing emotions and my own interpretations. Premier Makhura says he has ordered his director general to institute appropriate action to deal with the ombudsman s recommendations and says he wants this to be dealt with urgently. As the premier of Gauteng, I accept the report and will fully and urgently implement its recommendations without any reservation or any delay. It is clear from the report that there has been both improper and gross negligent conduct on the part of officials in the Department of Health. Christa Eybers | A timeline of the events leading up to deaths of 94 psychiatric patients from Life Esidimeni, and the subsequent investigations.Meanwhile, Mahlangu says she hopes South Africans will remember her for the good work she has done within the department since taking office in 2012.Citing the fact that it was given an unqualified audit by the Auditor-General for the first time in decades.Her spokesperson Steve Mabona said, It s unfortunate that this occurred but if you look at the department, it is stable because of her because when she arrived at the department it was bad. So probably we will not only focus on this but also the good work that she has done. But families say they will never forgive her.Christina Nxumalo s 50-year-old sister is one of the 94 who died. She says the former MEC should have stayed in her position and faced the repercussions of her actions. She should have listened to the advice she received the first time when she implemented this thing. So she must come and face the charges and I think she should go to jail. At the same time, the South African Society of Psychiatry says although it welcomes the Health Ombudsman report, it aims to stay involved in ensuring the implementation of the recommendations.The society s Mvuyiso Talatala said, The people who have died should not die for nothing; it is time now that we take mental health seriously and we should be consulted whenever we re required and hopefully the government as well will listen this time. The African National Congress Youth League and the Economic Freedom Fighters both say they will be laying criminal charges against Makhura and Mahlangu on Thursday morning.(Edited by Winnie Theletsane)