Police have scattered across the Pretoria inner city to monitor groups of anti-immigrant protesters. PRETORIA - Police have started using rubber bullets and stun grenades on a crowd of what looks like about 200 immigrants who were running along Eskia Mphahlele Drive in Pretoria.WATCH: Police fire rubber bullets to disperse Atteridgeville protestors.#Foreignermarch groups moving through streets, police following. pic.twitter.com/CmiROZ2uMfThe group is reported to have been running from town to join their fellow countrymen in an area with shops owned by Somali citizens.Police opened fire on the crowd when it refused to stop with some lifting their hands in surrender while some were holding stones and sticks.#ForeignerMarch pic.twitter.com/7yoXZbC0cfViolence started in Atteridgeville early on Friday morning with several main routes out of the township being blocked. Many of those protesters later made their way into the city.Hundreds of people walked while other were transported by bakkies and taxis.Some people covered their faces with shirts and balaclavas, carrying sticks and other weapons. #ForeignerMarch Marsbastad. BB pic.twitter.com/YBqBssRX8HA police helicopter hovered over the area, west of the capital. A South African man says all they wanted to do was to hand over a memorandum to the Home Affairs Department. We told them we want to work together to remedy all of these things. We are not here for confrontation. We were not aware that they were organised in groups and armed. Police have also confiscated pangas and other weapons from foreign nationals.Some foreigners yelled We are ready to fight, as protests continued.COPS MOVE INThe police managed to escort a group who moved into Marabastad. A large contingent of police gathered in Marabastad to receive protesters from Mamelodi, a march which had been approved. But the law enforcement officials have now dispersed to try contain the group from Atteridgeville.Most businesses have closed their doors, while there isn t a single street vendor in sight.#ForeignerMarch spaza Shops in the Atteridgeville area are all closed today.KG pic.twitter.com/lp7znGunML(Edited by Shimoney Regter)