The Health Ombudsman has revealed 94 patients died after being transferred from Life Esidimeni to NGOs operating illegally. JOHANNESBURG - The African National Congress Youth League (ANCYL) says it will lay criminal charges against former health MEC Qedani Mahlangu as well as Gauteng Premier David Makhura. This comes after the Health Ombudsman on Wednesday revealed that at least 94 patients died after being transferred from Life Healthcare Esidimeni to various NGOs that were operating illegally.Family members of the deceased have since spoken out about their frustration with the NGOs and the provincial Health Department while opposition parties have called for Mahlangu to face criminal charges.The youth league says it will be visiting the affected families but not before going to the nearest police station.ANCYL chairperson Matome Chiloane said, We are going to lay charges against the premier because there is no way the MEC would have acted without informing the principal, [in this case] being the premier. Chiloane says Makhura and Mahlangu waited too long to act on the deaths. Why did we have to wait until the report was finalised when at some point the MEC did say that there are patients dying. She released a very conservative number of 36 and during that time already 74 had passed on. Christa Eybers | A timeline of the events leading up to deaths of 94 psychiatric patients from Life Esidimeni, and the subsequent investigations.Meanwhile, Section 27 has welcomed Mahlangu's resignation, but adds it still wants her to face action over the deaths of nearly 100 psychiatric patients.Section 27 S Nomatter Ndebele says Mahlangu mustn't assume she's escaped responsibility. She should not escape accountability because she resigned. That is one of our biggest concerns, that there ll be no disciplinary action after she resigned. I don t think she should be seen as a hero for doing this. She still has to be held accountable and still says she was wasn t really accountable. It s not enough and a slap in the face of the families who are bereaved. The Health Ombudsman found Mahlangu and the department rushed a decision to terminate a contract with Life Esidimeni, and to transfer more than 1,300 mentally ill patients to other facilities.Read the Health Ombudsman's full report below: Life Esidimeni Report - Office of the Health Ombud by Primedia Broadcasting on Scribd(Edited by Winnie Theletsane)