Journalists are meeting with parliamentary officials to iron out issues related to their ability to cover Zuma&#8217;s address. CAPE TOWN/JOHANNESBURG - Journalists from the South African National Editors Forum (Sanef) and the Press Gallery Association (PGA) are meeting with parliamentary officials to iron out issues related to their ability to cover President Jacob Zuma s State of the Nation Address (Sona). This follows an urgent meeting convened on Tuesday to address concerns raised by journalists over whether their movement will be restricted in covering the Sona.Zuma is set to deliver his address at 7pm on Thursday amid unprecedented security.Secretary to Parliament Gengezi Mgidlana met with the PGA and Sanef on Wednesday, where he repeated assurances that journalists will not be hindered in their work.He says Parliament will provide a detailed outline of media rights and responsibilities in writing to guide journalists covering Sona.Journalists were concerned that some of them would be corralled in a so-called media square in the precinct and allowed to move around only under escort.[WATCH] From the archive: Is this why Sona security has been heightened?ZUMA UNDER FIRE OVER DEPLOYMENT Opposition parties are seeking an urgent meeting with National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbete regarding the deployment of more than 400 soldiers to Parliament, with the Economic Freedom Fighters threatening to approach the courts.The party's Mbuyiseni Ndlozi says they re considering taking the legal route. We might have to seek legal action, like an interdict. We can t go to Parliament with guns on our heads. That will be an illegal sitting. It will be joining Zuma in rendering this country a banana republic in general. The Democratic Alliance s John Steenhuisen says they want Mbete to explain the deployment of soldiers. We are awaiting confirmation to see her as she s essentially where the buck stops with parliamentary precinct. She signs off on anything that happens in the parliamentary precinct and has to have knowledge of it. I want to establish from her whether she has authorised the deployment to go ahead in this democratic space. The Presidency says there is nothing unusual about deploying soldiers as it has been done in the past.(Edited by Shimoney Regter)