Proceedings got off to a turbulent start with the EFF leader Julius Malema saying that President Jacob Zuma needed to leave the House. JOHANNESBURG President Jacob Zuma s State of the Nation Address was marred by yet another show of force, with security personnel being used to remove the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) from Parliament. Fists flew and pepper spray was used outside the building.Proceedings got off to a turbulent start with EFF leader Julius Malema saying that President Zuma needed to leave the house, resulting in a clash with speaker Baleka Mbete. We are abused by Zuma here. You are scared of Zuma. He used you [and] dumped you , said Malema.Mbete the ordered Malema to leave. Honourable Malema, please leave the house? May I ask the sergeant at arms to please escort Honourable Malema out of the house? His party members were also ordered to leave, and when they refused security personnel were called in.WATCH: Another chaotic Sona, EFF ejected from ParliamentIt was then the turn of the Democratic Allliance s leader Mmusi Maimane who criticised the use of the military and slammed President Zuma.The DA then followed the EFF and left the house.WATCH: Chaos in Parliament as Sona descends into screaming matchEarlier, Floyd Shivambu told the house that security police were armed with cable ties and what he called biological weapons . &quot;They even have these cable ties which they want to use to tie down members of the EFF in Parliament. But besides that, they have got injections as well. They want to use them to inject EFF members of Parliament with biological contents which are going to deactivate them for the rest of the day.&quot;Zuma tried to address the house when the EFF's Godrich Gardee interrupted him, saying the National Assembly had failed to enforce remedial action against the president.&quot;The point of order is that the President is in breach of his oath of office - he failed to uphold, protect and promote the Constitution.&quot;Malema then interjected.&quot;Mr Zuma has collapsed his own right to address us here. Mr President, 441 soldiers will never protect you. Your problem is not outside, your problem is here - there is no soldier here.&quot;The National Council of Province Chair Thandi Modise dismissed Malema s point of order, saying the matter had been dealt with.&quot;If members of the National Assembly wish to carry on with this matter, please do it when it your won seating and at your own time.&quot;Congress of the People s (Cope) Mosiuoa Lekota fired back, adding his voice to the growing cacophony. Madame Speaker, in English he is called a scoundrel. In our mother tongue he is called lemenemene . Members of Parliament continued to interject, with Modise warning them to take their seats, before she expelled Cope's Willie Madisha.WATCH: What happened after EFF, DA MPs left the house(Edited by Masechaba Sefularo)