94 mentally ill patients died after Mahlangu terminated a contract with Life Esidimeni and transferred them to other NGOs. JOHANNESBURG - Former Gauteng health MEC Qedani Mahlangu says she has read Health Ombudsman professor Malekgapuru Makgoba s report and has decided not to raise any issue with the recommendations as she awaits other processes that now have to unfold.Mahlangu tendered her resignation to Gauteng Premier David Makhura on Tuesday night.Ninety-four mentally ill patients died after she took the decision to terminate a contract with Life Esidimeni and transfer them to other non-governmental organisation (NGOs).The Health Ombudsman found she and her team were all guilty of taking the wrong decision and rushing the move to terminate the department's contract with Life Esidimeni and transfer more than 1,300 mentally ill patients to other NGOs. Makgoba says the decision by Mahlangu and other senior officials was quite simply too hasty and negligent. The programme of action that they undertook was described by almost every stakeholder as chaotic, in shambles and rushed. I m talking about almost 73 voices that submitted evidence. He found they didn t consider the welfare of the mentally ill patients who are among South Africa s most vulnerable. And you can see how unlawful that must be for a provincial department to a group of vulnerable people who we are supposed to look after. Mahlangu has not only resigned as health MEC, but as a member of the provincial legislature as well.#EsidimeniReport Makgoba: these people died unlawfully. This was an illegal act by the GP Health Department. MERead the Health Ombudsman's full report below: The report into the circumstances surrounding the deaths of mentally ill patients: Gauteng province by Primedia Broadcasting on ScribdHer spokesperson Steve Mabona says, The former health MEC has decided not to focus on the recommendations because we have an understanding that there must be other processes that must unfold and other entities who must take steps or necessary actions. #LifeEsidimeni ex-MEC Qedani Mahlangu expected to release public statement soon after her resignation last night.MAHLANGU ON HER RESIGNATIONMahlangu has spoken out after her sudden resignation on Tuesday night, saying there is nothing sinister about the timing of her decision and she feels the move was in the best interest of all parties involved in the Life Esidimeni tragedy.She says she decided to resign because she felt it would be the correct thing to do.Mabona says, Mahlangu felt that in response to the content of the report, the best thing for her to do was to resign. Read an explainer below, courtesy of Section27: Life Esidimeni Fact Sheet by Primedia Broadcasting on ScribdPOLITICAL PARTIES WELCOMES MAHLANGU S RESIGNATIONThe Gauteng African National Congress (ANC) has welcomed mahlangu s resignation, saying it demonstrates political accountability and sensitivity to the affected families.ANC provincial secretary Hope Papo says, She took the responsibility. The report mentions further actions to be taken against officials, let s wait. Opposition parties have expressed their disappointment in the provincial health department in the wake of the report s release.The Democratic Alliance s Jack Bloom says what he terms the rot within the department needs to be cleaned out: We welcome the resignation of mahlangu. We think that action should have been taken sooner. At the same time the Inkatha Freedom party in Gauteng says it s also disappointed with the department.(Edited by Zamangwane Shange)