Sharks head coach Robert du Preez&#8217;s named his first 23-man squad for their opening Super Rugby clash against the Red on Friday. CAPE TOWN - The Sharks team head coach Robert du Preez s named his first 23-man squad for their opening Super Rugby clash against the Reds on Friday.Patrick Lambie will captain the side with number eight Tera Mtembu his deputy in a team with a blend of youth and experience. The backline is packed with potential, with the likes of Andre Esterhuizen and Lukhanyo Am combining in the midfield. New recruit Kobus Van Dyk will join Springbok Lwazi Mvovo and the talented Curwin Bosch in the back three. The backline is completed by internationals Cobus Reinach and Lambie as the half backs. In the pack, the loose trio has a young feel with Jean-Luc du Preez and Mtembu being complemented by the seasoned Philip Van Der Walt. Springboks front rankers Beast Mtawarira and Coenie Oosthuizen will provide the experience amongst the forwards.#SuperRugby @TheSharksZA have named their 23 man squad for their match against the Reds - Lambie to lead with Mvovo earning his 100th cap. pic.twitter.com/cnEkoBO9abExciting young players who have stood out have been handed the opportunity to impress further in their season opener, says du Preez. We rewarded the guys that have really done well so far, there were no surprises. I think this is an exciting side and I m really looking forward to seeing how we go on Friday. It s going to be a tough challenge. Experienced international winger Mvovo will run out to join a select group of centurions as du Preez expressed his admiration for his milestone. I m very pleased for Lwazi on gaining his 100th Vodacom Super Rugby cap, that s a massive achievement. He s a guy who always sets high standards for himself and it s great to have a guy with that sort of experience in our set-up who always sets a good example for the young guys in the team. Hopefully, we ll give him a good present on Friday night. The Reds have added experience amongst their ranks and du Preez acknowledged what they are up against. They have assembled a really good squad: Stephen Moore, the Australian captain is with them, as is George Smith, Scott Higginbotham and some really good backs. It s going to be a very different proposition this time around. Recent history is good reading for the Sharks. They have won eight of their last 10 encounters with the Reds including each of their last two while the Reds have won just one of their four games across the last two Super Rugby seasons when hosting a South African side.(Edited by Zamangwane Shange)