Aniston and Witherspoon’s latest venture is reportedly being helmed by Michael Ellenberg and will be backed by his production company Media Res. LONDON - Jennifer Aniston is set to make her big TV comeback in a new series with Reese Witherspoon, which they are both executive producing. The 48-year-old actress is reportedly set to team up with fellow movie star Reese Witherspoon on a new drama production, which will depict the entertainment industry they are both involved in, according to The Hollywood Reporter. Although the programme has yet to be given a title, it is rumoured the project will be hitting the screens in the upcoming weeks with the project being pitched to premium cable outlets, as well as other streaming services. Aniston and Witherspoon’s latest venture is reportedly being helmed by Michael Ellenberg and will be backed by his production company Media Res. And House of Cards writer Jay Carson is set to pen the script for the unnamed show. Also joining the Big Little Lies star, and style icon Aniston as executive producers will be Steve Kloves, and Lauren Levy Neustadter. However, this is not the first time Witherspoon and Aniston have worked together, as 17 years ago the blonde-haired beauty made a guest appearance in two episodes of the hit series Friends, which saw the 41-year-old actress portray Jennifer’s on-screen sister Jill Green. And for Aniston - who is married to Justin Theroux - the forthcoming show marks the first time she has appeared as a regular star in a series since Friends last aired in 2004, although she has since starred in numerous films including the Horrible Bosses and it’s follow up, We Are The Millers, The Break-Up, Marley & Me, and The Bounty Hunter. However, the star doesn’t think the much-loved comedy sitcom will ever return in the future because of society’s reliance on technology. Speaking previously about the series, which also featured Courteney Cox, Lisa Kudrow, Matthew Perry, Matt Le Blanc and David Schwimmer, she said: “We were jokingly saying that if Friends was created today you would have a coffee shop full of people that were just staring into iPhones. “There would be no actual episodes or conversations.”