Jessie Duarte says they do need to take the claims against the Gupta family seriously at this conference. SOWETO - African National Congress (ANC) Deputy Secretary General Jessie Duarte says that if the Guptas have broken the law, they must go to court and people who believe the Hawks are captured, have a cynical view.She s confirmed party delegates will discuss the claims of state capture against the Gupta family but that they ll talk about corporate capture as a whole.Duarte says they do need to take the claims against the Gupta family seriously at this conference. We will look at that very objectively; but as the president and Mantashe said, it s not going to be in our interests to only focus on one family or one company. She was then told that many people believe the hawks won t investigate the Gupta leaks because the unit has also been captured. I think to say everyone in the Hawks is a bad person is like saying my attitude toward 702 is that you are captured. Duarte also says she can t say if the Gupta emails are authentic because she is not a forensic expert. NDP A ROADMAP TO SOCIAL ECONOMIC TRANSFORMATION Minister in the Presidency Jeff Radebe says the national development plan (NDP) is the roadmap to social economic transformation.Radebe says he's presented a report on the NDP outlining its progress to delegates at the ANC's policy conference.The Minister says the national development plan has been adopted by Parliament and the majority have embraced it.Radebe says there have been improvements in the health, education, safety and environment sectors and challenges will be addressed by the commissions from Monday. We ve outlined some of the achievements in the conference as well as areas we need to transform in the lives of people. We re also committing ourselves to redouble our efforts to address challenges and improving the quality of service. He says the number of people convicted for corruption has increased since 2014.Radebe says crime prevention strategies continue. On peace and stability, we have noted progress on some of the challenges in this sector of our society and of fighting corruption that since 2014 to March 2017, there is an increase in the number of convictions of people who have been found guilty on priority corruption cases from 52 to 110 people with assets to the value of R5 billion being frozen through the course of our laws. His press briefing was the last one for the day.The delegates continue discussions behind closed doors.