Domingo's contract expires at the end of the side's tour of England in August. CAPE TOWN - Russell Domingo has confirmed that he has reapplied for the position of head coach of the Proteas.Domingo's contract expires at the end of the side's tour of England in August. Speaking ahead of the first Test against England at Lord's on Thursday, Domingo said that he had already been interviewed for the job.The incumbent took charge of the Proteas in mid-2013 and has already had his contract extended twice by Cricket South Africa.Domingo's side, though, have not had a good tour of England so far, losing both the ODI and Twenty20 series to England while also crashing out of the ICC Champions Trophy tournament in the first round.Despite these setbacks, Domingo is upbeat on his side's chances in the Test series, saying that the side wants to win the Test series and reclaim the number one Test spot.&quot;We want to win, that is the bottom line,&quot; Domingo stressed. &quot;We set ourselves certain goals a year ago that we want to achieve in Test match cricket and we are determined to tick those boxes. To do that you have to play good cricket; you have to follow the processes, you have to absorb pressure and you have to counterattack in certain stages. We are very process-driven but we have the end-goal of winning the series and to improve our standing in Test cricket. We want to develop our brand in Test cricket and still try to find out what the best combination is.&quot;The head coach has also backed opening batsman, Dean Elgar, to stamp his authority on the side when he stands in as captain for Faf du Plessis, who will miss the first Test due to family responsibilities.&quot;He is a gutsy player,&quot; Domingo said of Elgar in London on Monday. &quot;He epitomises South African cricket to the tee. I m excited about working with him for the next couple of days as captain.&quot;Dean is an aggressive type of personality and he will play an aggressive brand of cricket,&quot; he added. &quot;He is an experienced player in the Test side and has had good success as a Test opener, that is a tough job in this game.&quot;He is going to try and take over and run with a lot of what Faf has instilled in the side, but be his own man, and try to make decisions that he feels will be in the best interests of the team on the day. I m excited to see what he brings. It s a big plus for us that we can have another prospective captain in the group and another player taking his game forward to the next level of leadership.&quot;