When I hear calls for black people to take up land and white people to give up privilege, I understand it. Is it worrying? Of course. Is there something I can do about it? Yes. Should I do something? Definitely. It is never too late to create a life of awareness and purpose.Decades after many South Africans had put up a fight to break apartheid and during a state of emergency, my family became politically active. It was by conscience and choice. Now is that time again for all of us. In the 1980s our father continued his work as a criminal lawyer, but with a disproportionate leaning to human rights and pro bono work getting political detainees out of prison or defending them. Among them black, coloured and white men and women. Most detained without trial or ever being charged.A few months after having triple bypass surgery, our dad was detained and taken to an unknown prison for his participation in various political organisations. Among them the National Democratic Lawyers Association and the movement for peace and justice. The irony not lost Years later when Madiba was released, my sisters and I with hundreds of other volunteers marshalled at the Grand Parade and City Hall where he would address everybody for the first time. We were all patient and overwhelmed with excitement. When Madiba made his appearance, everybody rushed forward and many with my sister, got crushed and had to be lifted onto a nearby balcony. Someone from the crowd said to her: Why are you even here? He is not your leader anyway? There was a sad sense of being forcefully released of your small but committed contribution towards a free country. It took something for us to understand that raw honesty. We had to be curious and delve into how that statement came about and whether there was truth to it.There was truth to it for that lady and her reality. Our truth is that Madiba was available to lead all of us. We preferred him and he chose all of us long before we knew him. He was part of a group of South African men and women from different walks of life who knew something had to be done to bring equality, political, economic and social freedom. They organised themselves even though it was highly illegal and dangerous. They made selfless commitments for a future we now reap the benefits of. When I say we, I still refer to a small minority of South Africans. White, black, Indian and coloured middle class for whom the system is working. Some of our parents and grandparents had opportunities to be educated and start businesses through ways and means, even though the system was designed to exclude all people of colour.I consider it a duty after growing up through apartheid to a free and democratic South Africa that I use all platforms I can access to highlight to those who want to know how it was for my family and I. I am fully aware there are hundreds and thousands of different versions of that story, we have to get the general idea to inform our opinions and our judgements. It is a historical privilege for me to have grown up through and not around apartheid like I did for the first half of my life.There were battles and wars. We won many battles. We elected a President Representative of the South African majority. I got to queue with my 40-something-year-old parents when we voted for the first time. We were free. That is what we thought. Fast forward a decade and then two and we complacently got on with our middle-class existence, living a better life than our parents did. Is that not the responsibility of the new generation to do better and live better than their parents? It can be. With this in mind, I am driven by a new reality, a new struggle. There is much left for all of us to learn about why people who have not felt the freedom of the free are now impatient and restless.Old battle wounds repeatedly get ripped open. We the middle class must silence our mouths and open our minds to listen, to learn and to help through our actions, to do what we can, with what we have, always and wherever we are. When people tell you it s not your country, he s not your leader, you don t have a say here, it is our turn, you should go to where you come from, it really is worth your while to take that on and interrogate what it means. Is it personal? Yes. Is it all true, probably not. It comes from a place of hurt, displacement, frustration, and disempowerment. It is a full illustration of a disconnection from our collective humanity. We owe it to ourselves to be curious.When you look to see what is meant by internalised oppression, missing middle class, black first land first, employment equity, white privilege, fees must fall, white monopoly capital, state capture, racism and so many ongoing campaigns for a voice, we will keep forming our judgements and opinions based on a collective experience. We all understand our point of view. The magic here is to understand it from the other points of view. Is it uncomfortable? Yes, very.Without us getting a national perspective, we will continue to miss opportunities for a more comfortable life for more people than just ourselves. Otherwise we give up our right to be shocked and horrified when people protest, burn, break and threaten our livelihoods closer to our suburbs than we are comfortable with. It is no longer a problem over there in a township, it is now everybody s problem. What did we expect?Madiba and his executive promoted reconciliation, peace, unity and also the TRC where ugly truths were exposed to get some closure in a bid to get South Africa to work for South Africans. Those were necessary processes in my mind. With hindsight many do not appreciate Madiba s foresight as they have not seen any good come from it for themselves. It did, however, allay the fears of those threatened by the swart gevaar . Many of us, myself included, were so relieved we won the fight to be free that we left the battlefield, rolled down our sleeves and got on with life.Personally I trusted our new government to do the right thing, to practice all the things we fought for, we promised and were promised and to do so with urgency and integrity. Some tried. On our watch though things have gone wrong. We have regressed in some instances and the faith and connection we built have been fractured and torn. Most are licking their wounds or sitting on a wait-and-see fence. It is not workable. I am calling everyone reading this to realise that most South Africans have nothing to lose and hence nothing to fear.Those of us who have privilege best use our privilege responsibly. To do that we have a few guides: acknowledge your privilege, look back and see how it came about, wonder about how it must be for the majority of South Africa to have no personal reference to privilege except what they see and experience on their way to work from underprivileged, underserviced, unsafe, unthinkable living conditions to work in our homes, our businesses, the places we shop and eat.We don t usually waste a good crisis, South Africa. We have an inexperienced government who is now better known for being corrupt and incompetent than addressing the violent, systemic, still working apparatus of the architects of apartheid. Every time we fight among ourselves about who is worse off, apartheid wins. Irreversible transformation is possible with or without agreement, it starts with you.While the slow and painstaking path to equality doesn t usually affect us directly, we should look well at the disparities in our homes, our places of work, on any street around our towns and definitely choose to look in on neighbouring communities who have gripes . They don t have electricity, sanitation, running water, access to local schools or transport, theirs or public.Privilege is not only about wealth, materialism, job and education opportunities, it is sometimes just that you show up and you look the way you look. My sisters and I had long straight hair, fair complexions and we experienced some privilege just by virtue of that. Do I defend it by saying, we couldn t help how we looked? We were born like that . I don t. I prefer to admit it came with some social capital. We were treated differently but we were also taught by our parents that we were equal as people, even when we were different. This is a small demonstration of a big blind spot in our world.Some of us righteously justify all we do have or how much more we could have had. It is never wasted to be mindful before we talk about how hard we have worked for it, how poor our parents were, how many sacrifices they made and how some people must just work harder or stay in school. The bitter truth is that the odds against the majority are still stacked against them in favour of a few.Actually, we should just shut up with all those stories and ask how we can help and put back with what we got from our education, our access, our platforms and our resources. In its discomfort and it complexity, it is that simple.The more upsetting this opinion is for you the deeper you need to look at your own circumstances, your story, the real one and the one you made up about it and you definitely need to listen to other peoples stories. Ask them to tell you about themselves, their family history in South Africa. The lessons will inform your opinions or change your perspectives. Either way, we will be creating a new possibility.Lisa Joshua Sonn is a social activist. Follow her on Twitter: @annalisasonn