ANC's Enoch Godongwana says the discussions about the Reserve Bank and land reform will continue in ANC branches until December. JOHANNESBURG - The African National Congress (ANC) economic transformation commission chair Enoch Godongwana says the party s policy conference has resolved to keep the Reserve Bank independent but to investigate changing its ownership.The party has also resolved to further study how to speed up land restitution to make an informed decision about whether there should be expropriation without compensation.Two weeks ago, Public Protector Advocate Busiswe Mkhwebane found the Reserve Bank s monetary policy mandate should no longer focus on inflation targeting.Godongwana says that they have come to a decision about the Reserve Bank.But the conference has also said that the continued private ownership of the Reserve Bank is an anomaly. In fact, the resolution takes directly from the Constitution, that quotation should be guaranteed. But there s a general agreement that the anomaly of a reserve bank that is still in private sector ... it's a problem. EXPROPRIATION OF LANDGodongwana says party delegates have resolved to protect the independence of the reserve bank and conduct more research on whether to expropriate land without compensation.Godongwana says they re not going to rush into a decision on changing land policy radically. We ve agreed that in order to continue with the research process, we should take informed decisions on this matter. He says they need to investigate the issue very carefully. We will do an audit of that, including government land for instance on the agricultural side, it is alleged that there s four million hectors that government owns. there s four million hectors that government owns. OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE OF RESERVE BANKGodongwana says they do want to change the ownership structure of the Reserve Bank but won t change its constitutionally mandated independence in setting monetary policy.He says the discussions about the Reserve Bank and land reform will continue in ANC branches until December.Delegates have also resolved that they ve got to change the way the economy is concentrated.Meanwhile, the rand lost major ground against foreign currencies after the discussion to nationalise the Reserve Bank.rand lost major ground against foreign currencies after the discussion to nationalise the Reserve Bank.At 4pm the local currency was trading at R13.48 to the US dollar compared to R13.08 on Tuesday, at R17.41 to the pound from R17.10 before and at R15.27 to the euro from R14.95 the day before.