The City of Cape Town says this is to reduce collective water usage to below 500 million litres per day. CAPE TOWN - Water restrictions in Cape Town will be intensified to level 4b from Saturday, 1 July 2017.The City of Cape Town says this is to reduce collective water usage to below 500 million litres per day. The City's Zara Nicholson says this will require water users to cut back on their individual usage to less than 87 litres of water per person per day. We must cut our water use even more to save as much water as we can while we still have water. This target is not only for home use. It s part of our continuing proactive drought management and interventions, along with intensifying the large-scale pressure reduction programmes across Cape Town to force consumption down. The City s Xanthea Limber says other emergency interventions are underway. However, there are many domestic consumers who are still using well in excess of 20, 000 litres per month per household. We have been monitoring and engaging with high users and we will be issuing letters to them to warn them that we will be installing water management devices at properties with unjustifiably high consumption to limit their water use to acceptable levels. Water management devices would be installed in terms of a directive issued by the Director: Water and Sanitation in terms of the Water By-law, clause 36 (1) (a) and (b).The City is expected to continue engaging stakeholders in business, the informal car wash sector and government departments.It has encouraged residents to follow the list below to get to 87 litres of water per person per day in total.Residents are asked to: Only flush the toilet when necessary, wherever you are. Take a shower that is shorter than two minutes. Collect your shower, bath and basin water and reuse it to flush your toilet, and for the garden and cleaning (bear in mind that greywater use has some health and hygiene risks you must avoid; keep hands and surface areas sanitised/disinfected). Defrost food in the fridge or naturally rather than placing it under running water. Use a cup instead of running taps in the bathroom or kitchen for brushing teeth, shaving, drinking etc. Wait for a full load before running washing machines and dishwashers. The rinse water from some washing machines can be reused for the next wash cycle. Upgrade to a multi-flush toilet and/or put a water displacement item in the cistern which can halve your water use per flush. Fit taps with aerators or restrictors to reduce flow to no more than six litres per minute, as per the City s by-laws. Check for leaks on your property and fix any leaks immediately.(Edited by Shimoney Regter)