The band says it has been left heartbroken and filled with 'grief and denial' following the tragic passing of the singer. LONDON - Linkin Park have released an open letter to their late bandmate Chester Bennington following his tragic death. The In the End hitmakers - comprising Mike Shinoda, Brad Delson, Dave Farrell, Joe Hahn and Rob Bourdon - have been left heartbroken and filled with "grief and denial" following the tragic passing of the singer, whose body was found at his home on Thursday morning. The band have shared an open letter to the frontman on their website, in which they have also thanked fans for the support both they and Bennington's family, wife Talinda and his six children, have received. They wrote: "Dear Chester, Our hearts are broken. The shockwaves of grief and denial are still sweeping through our family as we come to grips with what has happened. "You touched so many lives, maybe even more than you realized. In the past few days, we've seen an outpouring of love and support, both public and private, from around the world. Talinda and the family appreciate it, and want the world to know that you were the best husband, son, and father; the family will never be whole without you.”  Prior to his death, Bennington had spoken openly about his struggles with drug and alcohol abuse, depression, and being abused as a child, and his bandmates understood his "demons" were always a part of him and something that made the group more "human". The Crawling rockers have recently cancelled their upcoming tour dates in the wake of the singer's death but hinted they may not be splitting for good. They wrote: "Our love for making and performing music is inextinguishable. While we don't know what path our future may take, we know that each of our lives was made better by you. Thank you for that gift. We love you, and miss you so much.” The message ended with a link directing fans to the website they have set up in honour of Bennington, where they can leave their memories and tributes for the singer.