Lopez’s return to his Caracas house came as Venezuela is once again convulsed by demonstrations against President Nicolas Maduro. CARACAS - Venezuela’s best-known jailed opposition leader Leopoldo Lopez  was back home and hugging his family on Saturday after being granted house arrest following three years in jail for leading anti-government protests. Lopez’s return to his Caracas house came as Venezuela is once again convulsed by demonstrations against socialist President Nicolas Maduro, struggling with an economic crisis and global censure for overriding the powers of the opposition-led Congress. Lopez, 46, a photogenic, Harvard-educated former mayor who has been barred from holding elected office, left the Ramo Verde military jail before dawn and was reunited with his wife and two young children, relatives said. “A few days ago they had punished him with solitary confinement without light or water for three days,” said his father, of the same name, in an interview with Spanish radio. “(Now) he’s hugging his children, he’s with his wife ... I’m happy, he’s happy of course,” he added, adding that his son was wearing an electronic tag for authorities to track him. The opposition has long called Lopez a political prisoner, and leaders around the world, including US President Donald Trump, have pressed for his release. Maduro, who for years refused to pardon Lopez, has described him as a dangerous terrorist who sought to overthrow him through street violence. Government supporters often note Lopez’s role in a short-lived 2002 coup against the late former leader Hugo Chavez when he helped arrest a minister. Venezuela’s Supreme Court said Lopez had been granted house arrest due to health problems, but his family could not immediately confirm what those were. Opposition leaders applauded Lopez’s return home but said he should be granted complete freedom, along with several hundred other jailed opponents of Maduro. The government says all imprisoned activists are being held on legitimate charges, including coup-plotting. SUPPORTERS GATHER The president could be seeking to ease the pressure with Lopez’s return to home, but there was no sign of concessions to the opposition on other fronts. At Maduro’s behest, Venezuela on July 30 will elect a legislative superbody that can rewrite the constitution and dissolve state institutions, a move the opposition calls a naked power grab meant to keep the socialists in office against the will of the people. Dozens of supporters stood outside Lopez’s home in the upscale Caracas neighbourhood of Los Palos Grandes, some wearing shirts emblazoned with Lopez’s face. Lopez’s mother Antonietta arrived, beaming and dressed in white. “This encourages us to keep going because if you fight, you achieve something, however difficult it may be,” said architect Katty Poleo, who abandoned her morning jog to come to the house. Though Lopez had publicly called for peaceful resistance to Maduro in 2014 and was behind bars during most of the unrest that year which killed 43 people, prosecutors said his speeches sent subliminal messages and constituted a call to violence. He was sentenced to nearly 14 years. The case has long been a cause celebre for opposition supporters over what they deem the Maduro government’s trampling of human rights. Lopez is the scion of wealthy families and a direct descendant of the sister of Latin American independence hero Simon Bolivar as well as of Venezuela’s first president, Cristobal Mendoza. Critics paint Lopez as a dangerous radical in the pocket of Venezuela’s wealthy elite and the US government. He has ambitions to become Venezuela’s president and would likely be one of the most popular opposition aspirants in any future election.