Tributes continue to pour in for musical giant Ray Phiri who died on Wednesday morning. JOHANNESBURG – The Recording Industry of South Africa (RiSA) has remembered Ray Chikapa Phiri as a ‘music institution’. The award-winning performer died at the age of 70 at a Mpumalanga hospital in the early hours of Wednesday morning. Phiri had been battling lung cancer. RiSA joins thousands, including President Jacob Zuma, who have paid tribute to the legendary musician. Chief Executive Officer Nhlanhla Sibisi says, “It is the end of a magnificent era for music. Bra Ray was a national treasure and will be missed. For us at RiSA, we say music has lost a legend. May he rest in peace and all those close to him find peace in knowing that he ran his race - and what a beautiful one it was.” The late artist has been hailed as a musical giant whose qualities included his unique stage presence, charisma and longevity as an artist. Jazz maestro Peter Tladi, who also managed Phiri, says he has great memories of him. “He used to combine traditional jazz with the township music and he had that Mpumalanga sound that people didn’t know.” FRIENDS REMEMBER 'HUMBLE, GENEROUS, HUMOROUS' PHIRI Friend and fellow musician, Sipho 'Hostix' Mabuse says Phiri was a generous and compassionate friend. “When you hear the news that a person close to you has died, you don’t know whether you should cry or shout. I almost jumped out of my skin. We didn’t expect that he would be taken away so soon.” Despite having shared the stage with other musical greats such as Paul Simon and receiving many accolades, friends say Phiri remained a humble man. Fellow artist and friend Yvonne Chaka Chaka says, “The Ray Phiri I remember is selfless, humble and modest. Being a big star, he just acted like a normal man. He was not pompous and he was approachable – he was just down to earth and yet he was this big mega star.” Phiri is the recipient of the South African Music Awards Lifetime Achievement Award as well as the Order of Ikhamanga in Silver from President Zuma for his contribution to the liberation struggle and the transformation of the local music industry. WATCH: I will always remain in people's hearts and minds  Additional reporting by Mia Lindeque