President Jacob Zuma says he is prepared to go from province to province to address branches on the need to have two deputies. JOHANNESBURG - African National Congress (ANC) President Jacob Zuma has recommended two deputy presidents for the party to deal with factionalism.Delivering his closing speech at the ANC's policy conference at Nasrec, Zuma said he was prepared to go from province to province to address branches on the need to have two deputies.He says this is a vital move. But you can have whatever formula that you want to have, the fact of the matter is, this is a remedy to kill factions in the ANC. The president has expressed support for a recommendation by the ANC in KZN for all factions in the party contesting positions to be allowed to serve in the top leadership of the organisation, saying this will end factionalism. Let us not get rid of one who did not win, let us need the one who became number two or who did not win to be a deputy of the one who won. Zuma says the party's constitution must be changed. You can destroy the ANC without tweaking the Constitution in order to accommodate a system that is going to help the ANC unite and move forward. The President says discussions at the conference were robust and vibrant.President Zuma says the party is not the same as when this conference started. We also emerge out of this conference more united in purpose than when we came here. He has emphasised the need for a stable and united party that deals decisively with corruption.The president says the attendance and participation at the gathering should be seen as a show of unity in the lead-up to December s elective conference. All delegates and participants here demonstrated a deep understanding that the ANC plays a central role in the betterment of the lives of our people. He also says delegates have proposed finding a better way of dealing with slate politics. Comrades have proposed that we find a matured and sound way of politically managing possible contestation of leadership. He also addressed the issue of white monopoly capital. It is technically correct in the context of the South African political economy to talk of white monopoly capital. He says there are no losers and winners among delegates at this conference, saying the only winner is the ANC.WATCH: President Zuma at ANC national policy conference