Blac Chyna has brought in her attorney after her former fiance went on a social media rant on Wednesday which saw him post explicit images of her. LOS ANGELES - Blac Chyna is "exploring all legal remedies" against Rob Kardashian following his explosive social media rant against her. The Rob & Chyna star has brought in her attorney after her former fiance went on a social media rant on Wednesday, which saw him post explicit images of her, accuse her of being unfaithful and on drugs and threaten to stop her from seeing their seven-month-old daughter Dream, and she may make an official complaint about the reclusive sock designer's antics. I truly thought Chyna wanted to be a family and that's why I was so loyal to her but I learned my lesson and everyone else was right  Lawyer Walter Mosley told People in a statement: "I am exploring all legal remedies and protections available to my client at this time in attempts to best advise her on how she may want to proceed." As well as his social media outburst, an insider claimed Kardashian had also "sent people over to her house to pick up things that don't even exist" and called for "boundaries" to be set between him and Chyna, while another source claimed the 29-year-old star "constantly" has to change her phone number because of unwanted attention. The first source said: "There needs to be boundaries set as it's currently getting out of hand." The second added: "She's had to have a new phone number every month and constantly has to change her number. While everyone is writing stories and thinking it's fun gossip, it's actually dangerous." In his rants, Kardashian claimed to have showered his ex-partner - who also has four-year-old son King Cairo with former boyfriend Tyga - with lavish gifts just days ago and accused her of sleeping with other men in their bed, and she has taken to social media to seemingly mock the claims. But yes when ur girl leaves u after u spent 100K on her body to get done and then leaves u after have a baby girl who is only a few months  She uploaded a clip, captioned 'LOL', showing herself wearing a diamond watch, three diamond rings and two diamond encrusted Cartier bracelets in silver and gold. Drake's song Camera could be heard playing, with its lyrics including: "Don't listen to the lies, I swear they all lies. You know I could be your knight in shining armor, all tires. Girl, they love me like I'm Prince, like the new king with the crown. Bunch of underground kings, thought you knew how we get." Chyna has also taken to Snapchat and accused her former partner of hitting her. She wrote: "Rob u did all this but u beat me up and try act it never happen!!!!! "U put hand on me I swear on god!!!! On my kids but I'm supposed to be quiet because you're a Kardashian. The light will come to the light (sic)." LISTEN: Here’s how social media can ruin your life 