In the Durban July Classic Exceptional Raceday Hat or Fascinator category it was Zandile Maphumulo who took home first prize. DURBAN - With Greyville a swathe of colour inspired by the Durban July theme "The Colour of Magic", the judges had a hard time working through the huge entry for the four race day competitions before settling on the eventual couture champions in Classic Racewear for men and women, Best Dressed Couple and Exceptional Race day Hat or Fascinator. Winner of this year's Classic Racewear for Men, Naseem Nazeer was not going to overthink his approach to the event and knew that he had a wide scope to work with when putting together his Durban July 2017 masterpiece. "This year's theme has so much depth to it I had a lot of possibilities," Naseem Nazeer said. "I knew that I was just going to have to keep it simple, classy and clean." Mnotho Ngema finished second while Prince Shongwe took third in the Durban July Classic Racewear for Men category. Prince Nsibande was crowned Classic Racewear for Women winner in 2017 and with such a cosmopolitan group of people coming together to celebrate Africa's Greatest Horseracing Event, his inspiration came from all parts of the Rainbow Nation. "People from all over the country come to this event. I used the concept of the mixed ethnicity of South Africa for my design," Nsibande mentioned. In the Durban July Classic Racewear for Women category, Kireshen Chetty finished second with Kate Shoesmith taking home the third prize. Catherine Nolan, who took home the prize for designing the outfit worn by the Best Dressed Couple, said she took inspiration from the character of South Africa."Traditional African high-end fashion inspired my design," Nolan commented. Pregasen Govender and Monque Talita finished second and third respectively in the Durban July Best Dressed Couple competition. In the Durban July Classic Exceptional Raceday Hat or Fascinator category it was Zandile Maphumulo who took home first prize followed by Sphenelele Ntuli and Pregasen Govender in third. It was Govender's second award of the day after he finished second in the Best Dressed Couple competition. Vodacom Durban July Classic Racewear - female: Vodacom Durban July Classic Racewear - Male: Vodacom Durban July Huawei Best Dressed Couple: Vodacom Durban July Classic Exceptional Raceday Hat or Fascinator: 