Arts and Culture Minister Nathi Mthethwa says they&#8217;ve warned members that the ANC faces losing more support if it doesn&#8217;t address its many issues. JOHANNESBURG - Arts and Culture Minister Nathi Mthethwa says the African National Congress (ANC) is aware of its challenges and he believes the party can turn things around.Mthethwa briefed the media on Monday about the strategy and tactics document presented to delegates at the ANC s policy conference.He says they ve warned members that the ANC faces losing more support if it doesn t address its many issues.Mthethwa says it s in the ANC s hands now to ensure that it increases support ahead of the general election in 2019.#ANCNPC Mthethwa: we are at our weakest since 1994, but it is possible to rebuild. GNMthethwa says they have not discussed forming a coalition because that would be self-defeating. What s important is that internally, you should know your strengths and weaknesses. And we believe that as we get into the details of the actual programme of action we ll be able to turn around the situation. Mthethwa says the themes of the ANC s strategy document are organisational renewal and integrity to ensure that the party continues to build a national democratic society with the ANC at the helm. ANC AT ITS WEAKEST SINCE 1994 Mthethwa says that the party is at its weakest since 1994 and its time for it to regain lost ground and reconnect with the people.He says that now is the time to refocus and strive towards economic transformation if the ANC wants to increase support ahead of the general election.Mthethwa says that talk about liberation movements stalling after attaining freedom is not based on any science and now is the time for the ANC to refocus. We re at our weakest since 1994, in terms of our cohesive force as the alliance. We need to address it if we re to continue with the project of building a national democratic society. Mthethwa says that the ANC needs to shift its focus from political emancipation to economic freedom and ensure it reconnects with its allies and the people. Reclaim the lost crowd. Reconnect with our people. At the same time, Mthethwa says the ANC should not be aspiring to change white monopoly capital to black monopoly capital.(Edited by Zamangwane Shange)