Nowhere is apartheid s legacy more obvious than in Cape Town, specifically as regards to the very skewed apartheid spatial development which is still in existence.Over the past weeks, residents of Imizamo Yethu in Hout Bay have been protesting for better housing and, separately, the lack of consultation regarding the Tafelberg school sale has been a noose around the province s neck. Many poorer residents believe they are being driven out of Cape Town and increasingly gentrified areas like Woodstock, and not being given access to housing near the city and their places of work. Almost daily commuter trains are delayed, leaving the working class of Cape Town stranded or hopelessly late for work.Our current reality simply cannot be sustained. Of course, Cape Town may be sui generis, but all South African cities face similar challenges of urbanisation, lagging infrastructure and the remnants of apartheid s spatial development that sees the poor living outside the city and often in low-lying areas prone to floods and sewage leakages.Sustainable, livable cities have more than fine plans and far more than lovely cafes in a city centre closed off to the marginalised who are ferried in and out each day on poor public transport. Livable cities are safe. Livable cities have a proper housing mix. Livable cities have efficient public transport for the majority of its citizens. Livable cities have a cultural life that is inclusive. And above all, livable cities have high levels of trust between citizens.Given South Africa s past, our levels of trust between citizens has always been low and are probably even lower still given the rising levels of inequality, exacerbated by ever-increasing corruption that has broken down much of the social fabric and whatever fragile social cohesion we have had since 1994.Yet cities are where the rubber hits the road in relation to development and building communities of the future. Cities have the distinct ability to be agents of real social change. They are places in which to live, love, work, thrive and survive. Great cities are able to accommodate diverse forms of expression by those who live in them through art, music, sport, food, literature and graffiti, to name a few. They have a comfortable relationship with those who dissent and with a past that might be haunting. They are inherently at peace with themselves and they are resilient in the face of attack and attempts to divide. They stand for something.Cities are places of community and individualism, solitude and togetherness. Community within cities often happens in those public spaces: squares, beachfronts, promenades and parks. Public transport links and joins the dots of community. In London, the city s parks are its greatest asset, New York has the iconic green lung of Central Park and there is no greater pleasure for an Italian than meeting on a public square - places where life is lived more publicly. In Amsterdam, the city is lived in and seen on a bicycle, and in Sweden s cities the green parks are part and parcel of the city- along with the Swedish fika coffee and a pastry over a chat.Great cities allow for the casual interaction between people, across all social and racial barriers. Sharing public space is the great leveller, after all, whether on a crammed London tube, a New York subway, a Paris metro or a Berlin U-or S-bahn. But let us also make no mistake: these cities themselves face the challenges of inequality, with many poorer people increasingly pushed to the margins of cities. In addition, housing for those on the fringes of society has become a challenge which most countries have been unable to deal with adequately.The recent Grenfell Towers incident in London is a case in point. As the United Nations World Cities Report of 2016 says:Persistent urban issues over the last 20 years include urban growth, changes in family patterns, growing number of urban residents living in slums and informal settlements, and the challenge of providing urban services. Connected to these persistent urban issues are newer trends in the urban governance and finance: emerging urban issues include climate change, exclusion and rising inequality, rising insecurity and upsurge in international migration.It goes on to say that:Opportunities across diverse individual abilities and cultural backgrounds that historically characterize urban dynamics have stalled in many regions of the world. Too many cities today fail to make sustainable space for all, not just physically, but also in the civic, socioeconomic and cultural realms. The spatial concentration of low-income unskilled workers in segregated residential quarters acts as a poverty trap with severe job restrictions, high rates of gender disparities, deteriorated living conditions, social exclusion and marginalization and high incidence of crime.South African cities, for an array of reasons to do with the past and complexities of the present, have also failed to create those safe spaces for interaction between ordinary people in a society with such high levels of inequality and unemployment. Of course, South African cities have their own texture and while the challenges may appear daunting, there is currently much research underway regarding adaptive urban governance .Edgar Pieterse, probably South Africa s leading expert on cities and resilience, is currently concluding a study on so-called turn-around cities like Addis Ababa, Nairobi, Johannesburg, Kigali, Lagos and Luanda. What can be learnt from these cities and their strategies for development in societies which look more like ours and less like London or Paris? Perhaps between the utopia and dystopia, we may find some implantable and pragmatic policies for our cities?In the specific case of Cape Town, some of the debates around the appropriate use of public space arose during the Seafront for all campaign against development on the Sea Point promenade in Cape Town many years ago. They are all still completely valid today. The Sea Point promenade is probably one of the most diverse public spaces in Cape Town where people of all hues and backgrounds are simply free to be, walk, cycle, play football and interact. It is the place where people of the Cape flock on warm summer days to be chilled by the Atlantic Ocean and where its Muslim community gathers for sightings of the moon ahead of Eid celebrations.It remains hard to believe that had the politicians and planners had their way, a large part of the Sea Point promenade would by now have morphed into yet another parking garage and shopping area. Instead, children still play, the runners run, the football teams continue to dribble and the gogos still gather on Sundays. Some rather eclectic public art has found its way onto the promenade, but we are better off being divided by debate on the selection of art than by yet another concrete eyesore creating the further atomisation of the city.Finding the balance between spaces of play, expression and development is key to a sustainable city. That aside, we do need to be asking ourselves what kind of city are we seeking to build and how we might optimise open spaces for interaction and simply to be .One drive along the Garden Route in the Western Cape shows how golf-course style development is threatening the environment and our beautiful coastline. Our peculiar South African mall culture has created a particular lifestyle that has the effect of exclusion and closing off parts of the city to the other .Given its already lopsided spatial development, the need for building an inclusive Cape Town is now urgent. That will need to go beyond plans and be translated into action. Some of those plans for inclusive housing and transport may well cause us to plumb the depths of uncomfortable discussions, but we have no choice if Cape Town truly wants to be a world city . It cannot be that if it is perceived mostly as a classy latte stop or a designer chic hub. It means poor people will have to be part of the conversation to build a city that we can say is truly inclusive and where we have, together, built high levels of trust between us.The poet, Karen Press, perhaps puts it more eloquently in Under Construction, one of a series of poems on the urban landscape, and the kinds of questions we should ask about citizens, community, anonymity and creativity in cities.UNDER CONSTRUCTIONtest: would Vladimir and Estragon be willing to wait here?test: would a ball kicked along the road roll backwards?test: would a bunch of flowers stay alive all the way home?test: would Charles Baudelaire walk these pavements?test: how long would a goldfish survive?test: would Frida Kahlo find enough colours?test: would the carrots grow straight?test: would Nawal el Saadawi be able to relax?test: would a cellist be heard?test: would Elvis be happy here? Would Fela?We could ask the same of all our South African cities and find that the answers provide some difficult challenges. The development choices of today affect the sustainability of our cities for decades to come. Future generations may not thank us for failing to overcome the challenges of shaping new cities where everyone, no matter how rich or poor, feels welcome to work, play, create or simply be anonymous.Judith February is based at the Institute for Security Studies. Follow her on Twitter: @judith_february