In June, the unemployment rate increased to 27.7%; the highest it's been since September 2003, and SA entered a technical recession. JOHANNESBURG - The African National Congress (ANC) has failed to agree on a clear plan to get the economy out of recession and tackle near 28% unemployment and it's risked rattling investors with pledges to consider nationalising the Reserve Bank and expropriating land.The ANC has agreed to accelerate land reform with the possibility of expropriation without compensation as a last resort, without giving any details on how it would navigate the Constitution to do this.The party also said it would like the central bank to be wholly state-owned, which initially spooked investors as the rand extended its losses against the dollar.UNEMPLOYMENTIn June, the Quarterly Labour survey, released by Stats SA, showed that unemployment rate has increased to 27.7%, the highest it has been since September 2003.The survey showed that employment grew by 144,000 jobs in the first quarter of this year but this was offset by 433,000 more people looking for jobs.Statistician-General Pali Lehohla said several sectors experienced growth. The biggest growth in employment has been observed in manufacturing, finance and mining for the first time in 2017. After a decline of four successive quarters employment grew in all provinces quarter-on-quarter, except in the Eastern Cape and Limpopo. He said unemployment remains a major concern. The unemployment rate has grown up to 27.7% and there were more job seekers compared to those who actually got employed. The unemployment level that we experience now was last seen in September 2003. RECESSIONAlso in June, Stats SA announced that South Africa s gross domestic product (GDP) growth rate was at 1% on a year-on-year basis. However, the 0.7% quarter-on-quarter decrease meant the country entered a technical recession.South Africa last entered a technical recession in 2009.The largest negative contributor to growth in GDP in the first quarter was the trade, catering and accommodation industry, which decreased by 5.9% and contributed -0.8 of a percentage point to GDP growth.The manufacturing industry contracted by 3.7% and contributed -0.5 of a percentage point to GDP growth. Seven out of ten divisions reported negative growth rates in the first quarter. The largest contributor to the decrease was the petroleum, chemical products, rubber and plastic products division.In contrast, the mining and quarrying industry increased by 12.8% and contributed 0.9 of a percentage point to GDP growth.The agriculture, forestry and fishing industry rebounded in the first quarter of 2017 on the back of eight consecutive quarters of contraction. The industry s increase of 22.2% in the first quarter of 2017 was mainly as a result of increases in the production of field crops and horticultural products.Additional reporting by Barry Bateman.(Edited by Winnie Theletsane)