A house is not a home. The memories are always with you. Change is good. It is a new adventure.I have been told one of the top stressors in life is moving home. As an adult I have moved three times. None of those moves were traumatic, they were effortless and exciting. Now, I am a little older, I prefer routine at home and can be spontaneous go-with-the-flow anywhere else (so I tell them).We are moving out of our family home of 18 years. We chose to move, we chose to put our home on the market many times and it never got sold. For us it was the sign that this is our home. It is a specific home for a big family. We have two adult sons, a teenage girl and a tween boy of 11.Over almost two decades we have redesigned our home to suit our family needs and comforts. It now fits us like a favourite pair of leather brogues. The last time we renovated we got professional advice about what makes a home marketable. We added a guest bathroom and an entrance to the studio where the boys live to separate it from the main house. We lifted all the tiles and carpets and spread the most beautiful stucco floors throughout our home. It gleams and creates uniformity and space.We renovated to sell. We moved back from our rented accommodation and loved our house with its facelift. The aromas, the sway and swish of the oak trees, the breezes sneaking in from known drafty nooks, the bad Wifi reception and familiar sounds inside and outside, belonged to us. We were home.At the beginning of this year and the start of the new sellers market we curiously got a valuation done. We were usually disappointed at what the market suggested our home was worth. This time using a small property group - all the big ones had not been able to sell our home despite having a massive budget to market it locally and abroad and of course their own set of keys, open houses most Sundays and a promise that selling our home would be a breeze.We threw caution to the wind, we turned down show houses as we were not in a hurry to sell, we were just speculating . As a result many feet passed through our home while I was cooking dinner, the kids were doing homework or lounging around in the TV room. If I were an estate agent (and I have been a buyer), I would use the opportunity of showing off the house as it is in use. Sometimes I would be cooking and the young children would be sitting in the breakfast room doing their homework, the desks in their bedrooms reserved for studying. This is how a family uses a home.As usual there was much interest, a few second visits and then a lull. Same routine, different agent and a mandate that was tick and tocking.On the very last day of the mandate, my husband and I accepted with indifference and no real conversation that it was another fruitless attempt. We just - much to my displeasure - had all these strangers walk through our home and then reject it. I often felt a little offended This is our haven, our space, we created it and our friends, family and our children love being in our home. We braai on Fridays with doors, hearts and wine bottles open. We entertain at home before choosing to go out to dine. As groups or families we play games, we have big and small parties and the whole house works. We use everything, the privacy we have created for all, the communal family room and TV room. Our garden is open and the children and their friends can play outside until after dark.I was thinking about all the reasons that this was definitely the home for us until our nest was empty and we get to buy a lovely little lock-up-and-go apartment in front of a swishing ocean somewhere when we got a simple text to ask if the agent could bring around an offer to purchase at 5:55pm, 5 minutes before the conclusion of the sole mandate.Accepting their offer was subject to our offer on a nearby house being accepted. In the meantime, the potential buyers of our home wanted to bring their kids to have a look. They loved our house. Like us, they have three sons and a daughter and their kids are the ages ours were 10 years ago. We know what this home has in store for them and their growing up family. It will be fun, memorable and wonderful.Everything looked good to go, which left me resigned and cynical. It was so pleasant and refreshing how much this family loved our house. Within a few days, they had their whole extended family visit one Saturday morning, the builders, architects, landscapers and grandparents.We move to a rented home in a few sleeps ahead of a refresher on the house we have bought. It all happened so fast that I am relying on our architect s drawings to remind me about the layout of the new house. All I do know is that the paralysis and the excitement of planting new family roots in an unfamiliar home are balanced.Our children have mixed feelings about leaving, mine are stirred, our friends and families are a little shaken at the suddenness. We all have an investment in the walls and floors of this home. Memories etched in photographs, weddings, baptisms, after parties, New Year s Eve get-togethers with children, Christmas lunches for 70 people squished around and along tables. Conflict resolution meetings in our study, with friends, where we were sometimes asked to mediate. Confidential family meetings where we provided a safe space for talking and sharing. Our own fighting usually restricted to our bedroom or the kitchen. Many lessons have been learnt in this house. How to love, how to be fair, how to be angry, how to gather and huddle in crisis, how to celebrate our victories and lick our wounds of defeat. It has served so many purposes as a space we created.The new owners are excitedly sharing all their plans for their new home. My beloved study will now be a foyer, all the stucco floors will be ripped up and replaced with marble tiles and our brand new kitchen designed for space and utility will be closed up and off and changed to a cottage style.I think it's time we took our children to see our new home so that we too can make plans and tweak the imagination of our architect with Pinterest, home design Youtube video clips, design preferences and let the magic begin. We can make a house a home, this we know.Lisa Joshua Sonn is a social activist. Follow her on Twitter: @annalisasonn