The deputy president says the national executive committee&#8217;s decision to have a judicial commission of inquiry without delay should be welcomed. PRETORIA African National Congress (ANC) Deputy President Cyril has described state capture as the elephant in the room that's eating away at the ANC.The deputy president says the national executive committee s (NEC) decision to have a judicial commission of inquiry without delay should be welcomed. This decision is an important decision comrades. The African National Congress wants this decision to be implemented. It does not want this decision to be put at the bottom of the cupboard. Ramaphosa delivered the ANC s message of support at Cosatu's central committee meeting in Tshwane on Tuesday morning.He warned that the judicial commission of inquiry must be instituted before the state capture issue killed the ANC. This state capture issue is busy eating the African National Congress away. He mentioned emails leaked to the Sunday Times and City Press that reveal how the Gupta family and their employees appeared to direct ministers.Ramaphosa says the documents show the urgent need for a probe into state capture.LISTEN: Nzimande: If SACP keeps quiet, it s going to kill SAOn Monday, National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbete said it would be desirable to have a commission of inquiry into all matters related to state capture.She appeared confident that some form of inquiry would happen. For now there's nothing, but there will be. The Democratic Alliance has written to Mbete calling for an ad hoc committee to conduct a parliamentary inquiry following the release of e-mails that point to links between President Jacob Zuma, several Cabinet ministers and the Gupta family.The Public Protector's report on state capture also recommended a judicial commission of inquiry.But Zuma is appealing that report.Mbete said a &quot;structure&quot; would probe state capture in its broadest meaning. I think we will all sleep well once we know that we are having some people pay attention to this monster. Deputy Speaker Lechesa Tsenoli said any structure that would investigate state capture would be &quot;absolutely welcomed&quot;.Read the Public Protector's full 'State of Capture' report below: State Capture Report 2016 by Primedia Broadcasting on ScribdAdditional reporting by Lindsay Dentlinger.(Edited by Shimoney Regter)