On Friday, Public Enterprises Minister Lynne Brown said she had approved Molefe's return to Eskom as CEO. JOHANNESBURG - The South African Communist Party (SACP) says Brian Molefe has not been reinstated as Eskom CEO but re-employed, which means Eskom s board has broken governance rules by allowing him to go back to Megawatt Park.On Friday, Public Enterprises Minister Lynne Brown said she had approved Molefe's return to Eskom as CEO.Molefe resigned from Eskom last year after the Public Protector's State of Capture report revealed he'd been in communication with Ajay Gupta dozens of times and visited Saxonwold regularly while the Gupta family was buying a coal mine that supplied Eskom.The SACP s Alex Mashilo says the Molefe's resignation as an African National Congress (ANC) member of Parliament (MP) and return to Megawatt Park reveals what the true agenda was. Clearly, Brian Molefe did not go to Parliament to serve as an MP. Let us recall that as the SACP, together with ANC officials, stopped Brian Molefe of being appointed as the minister of finance. Political analyst Ralph Mathekga says the ANC s condemnation of this move is significant. It says the President Jacob Zuma is increasingly becoming isolated. I also don t think you do with type of thing without a cost benefit analysis. Cosatu, Corruption Watch and Business Leadership South Africa have also condemned Molefe s reappointment at Eskom.The Democratic Alliance on Friday said it would go to court to challenge Molefe's reinstatement. The DA's Natasha Mazzone said: We believe Molefe was never entitled to the R30 million in the first place and don t believe he qualified for early retirement as he is under the age of 55. He also only worked for Eskom for 21 months. The ANC's Zizi Kodwa said the party was embarrassed by minister Brown s comments. We are embarrassed because the minister seems to have endorsed what is called an illegal process and this is where most of the time courts rule against government, because government in most instances undermines the process. Molefe is not part of the institution. He was brought in and there was already a due process to fill the vacancy as an advertisement was out and people had applied. (Edited by Shimoney Regter)