This is because Ghanaian referee Joseph Lamptey was banned for life by Fifa for what it calls &quot;match manipulation&#8221; in the fixture between the two nations. CAPE TOWN - South African Football Association (Safa) president Danny Jordaan has told EWN Sport they would reject a replay of the World Cup qualifier between Bafana Bafana and Senegal if Fifa were to suggest it.This is because Ghanaian referee Joseph Lamptey was banned for life by Fifa for what it calls &quot;match manipulation in the fixture between the two nations.The ban stems from a penalty he awarded to South Africa in their 2-1 win over Senegal in November last year.When asked if the possibility of a replay would be considered because the initial match was unlawfully manipulated, Jordaan responded. We will not accept it. If you must start replaying matches where referees make mistakes we will still be playing the league. The president of Safa says he s yet to hear anything from Fifa regarding their final decision on the matter. We played in November of last year. Since then we have not heard anything. Jordaan says Safa had no say in the selection of Lamptey as the match official and cannot take responsibility for his performance. That referee was appointed by Fifa, that is a Fifa match, it s not our match so they must deal with their referee and that is end of story. It s not our referee, we did not appoint him and we won the match. Jordaan gave examples of other refereeing mistakes but the results still stood. Our position is that the referee s decision is final. Referees make so many mistakes. Maradona scored with the hand and then became world champions. So many (other) things, Thierry Henry played the ball with his hand and scored and qualified to come here to the 2010 World Cup. There has been an example of a Fifa match being replayed, the 2006 Fifa World Cup qualifying match between Uzbekistan and Bahrain in 2005 was declared invalid because of a mistake by referee Toshimitsu Yoshida (suspended by Fifa).The Japanese official made a mistake involving a penalty incident which had been awarded to Uzbekistan, who then called for an investigation which ended in the match being replayed.Safa will hope to avoid a verdict as such that as they remain in a relatively strong position in their World Cup qualifying group.