Julius Malema addressed dozens of residents and supporters near the local taxi rank on Tuesday afternoon. NQUTHU - Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader Julius Malema has told the people of Nquthu to show the African National Congress (ANC) the middle finger at this Wednesday s by-election because it has chosen to give President Jacob Zuma a million rand swimming pool while they still don t have water. Malema addressed dozens of residents and supporters near the local taxi rank on Tuesday afternoon.The EFF leader says the red berets are willing to accept the polling result and he's urged voters not to be intimidated by members of the ANC on the campaign trail. Malema has told the Nquthu residents to stop voting the same way they have been doing since 1994. If you want to continue with a life of unemployment, then go and vote for that one with a head that looks like butternut. He says if there is no clear winner, the party is willing to enter into coalitions. But if you don't like the EFF and are angry, then vote for the IFP. Anything except for that corrupt ANC! #Nquthu #EFF CIC Julius Malema has just arrived here near the Nquthu Plaza and taxi rank. @ZiyandaNgcobo pic.twitter.com/AvZIxxMr7U#Nquthu #EFF Leader Julius Malema is now on stage . pic.twitter.com/19jXgVucP8At the same time, Malema has described the ANC as a corrupt kingdom ruled by President Jacob Zuma.The EFF leader says Zuma treats the ANC as his own personal kingdom, which is why his family continues to abuse state resources.He says Zuma has more sinister reasons for endorsing Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma to take over from him. When he came in, he moved Dlamini-Zuma to the African Union so that he can keep her safe and that she is not accused of corruption. So, when he leaves, he fetches her to come back to South Africa. Malema says if voters choose other political parties at Wednesday s poll, this will send a strong message to the ANC of what's to come in 2019.The EFF leader also made a strong plea to South African men to stop the abuse of women and children. (Edited by Winnie Theletsane)