The former Finance Minister says the shelf life of a national liberation movement is about 20 to 25 years and somewhere in that period, it is going to lose its sense of purpose. JOHANNESBURG Former Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan says the country s leaders need to identify their weaknesses in order to achieve political stability. Gordhan was the keynote speaker at the screening of a local documentary at Constitution Hill in Johannesburg on Thursday night. He was accompanied by former President Kgalema Motlanthe. Gordhan says it s when the vision of the future is lost that difficulties arise.He says the shelf life of a national liberation movement is about 20 to 25 years and somewhere in that period, it is going to lose its sense of purpose. It then starts degenerating in one form or another, giving way for autocracy and it s going to begin to take over. He says it s possible to look at history to help guide the understanding behind the decay of an organisation. Gordhan adds that he had heard gossip circulating at the World Economic Forum in Durban that South Africa is in a bit of a mess. He says the next time the delegates come here, South Africa needs to show them that it has fixed that mess.#PromisesAndLies Pravin Gordhan says old paradigms are being challenged in South Africa - but it's important not to become cynics. KS pic.twitter.com/5yNeuawnRvSA NEEDS TO REFLECTWhile the former minister highlighted some aspects of the political instability South Africa now faces, he says he remains hopeful that things will change.He has just come back from the World Economic Forum being held in Durban he says one of the things South Africa must confront is that a good history, as it pertains to the African National Congress, is no guarantee of a good future. We have to confront certain truths, if you like, or certain objective facts and say how do we deal with that? Gordhan says a good future is built on sound leadership and a sound understanding of new realities that are unfolding. Do we have the humility to be able to reflect on one s own weaknesses and shortcomings, and say my own shortcomings, either as a group or as an individual, are causing immense damage around? But Gordhan maintains that despite the huge political challenges facing the country, it is important not to become cynical but to instead remain hopeful.(Edited by Leeto M Khoza)