Southern King&#8217;s coach Deon Davids is hopeful their performances on the field will help in influencing their decision around their Super Rugby status. CAPE TOWN Southern Kings coach Deon Davids has toldEWN Sport the possibility of being axed from Super Rugby does have a subconscious effect on players. However, he is hopeful their on-field performances will help them stay in the competition for the foreseeable future.Next year will see South Africa field four franchises in Super Rugby, there are currently six franchises and it seems the Kings and the Cheetahs status could be in danger but SA Rugby have yet to make a final call.The Kings have exceeded expectations this season in light of their off-field administration issues as well as cash flow problems.They put the Melbourne Rebels to the sword as they beat them 44-3 in Port Elizabeth this past weekend to record two successive wins with David s receiving plaudits for his work with the franchise over the past two years.David s says the upturn in fortunes this season is down to improved planning with regards to their preseason. I think last year in very difficult circumstances we ve learnt a lot of lessons and at the end of last year we really dissected our season and started with what we thought would be an effective plan to put together to ensure that we prepare better. Touching on the prospect of losing their Super Rugby status, David s admits it s in the back of the minds of all staff at the franchise. It s difficult, I can honestly say to you that subconsciously it is something that is always there. I think it must be difficult for the players and the coaching staff and their families. The former Boland and Golden Lions coach is desperate to have the opportunity to continue with his current crop of players and is understandably optimistic about their potential future as a unit. I would love to have in my life a team like this for two years, just progressing from the one year to the other. If you look at this team now, if they can stay together for the next year imagine what they might do? While the 49-year-old coach is hopeful their performances on the field will help in influencing their decision around their Super Rugby status. From the start I said to them, listen, the only thing we can do is control the controllable s. We need to ensure that thing we can have an impact on and we become excellent in terms of that, and if we can be excellent on that I believe the rest of the decisions that need to be made might be influenced around that. Despite winning only three matches and losing six thus far, the Kings have been lauded for their desire and style on the field, while a number of talented players have been unearthed. David s praised his player s attitude while noting his emphasis on creating the right environment within the camp. There is a great work ethic amongst them, from my perspective I also was very hard on putting up a good culture, working on a culture with people where they can learn, where they feel empowered and they can express themselves. The Kings have a timely bye this weekend and then prepare to face the Sharks, Brumbies and Lions.