Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini says external experts are needed to help with the takeover plan. PARLIAMENT - Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini says it will take at least five years before the South African Social Security Agency (Sassa) will be ready to completely take over the payment of grants.Dlamini is attending a Parliamentary Portfolio Committee meeting on Social Development. She s also taken a swipe at the media, saying journalists created hype around the payment of social grants.She says her department should be given the benefit of the doubt. The estimation that we have right now is at approximately R6 billion. South Africans need to look at the whole process as an investment. Dlamini says external experts are needed to help with the takeover plan because the agency doesn't have the expertise. It s not going to take 12 months to bring the whole programme into its totality... yes, we agree that the company that s paying has to go. THE USE OF EXTERNAL CONSULTANTS Dlamini has defended the use of external consultants to prepare the Social Development Agency for the takeover of grant payments.Dlamini told Parliament's Social Development Portfolio Committee on Wednesday that she's considering going to court to pronounce on their legality.Dlamini says Sassa doesn t have the in-house expertise to prepare for the takeover of social grants. It s a process she says won t happen in the next year, despite a Constitutional Court ruling that it do so by next year.But she says workstreams are necessary to do the groundwork. We may consider taking the matter to court. We ve been explaining on a daily basis why we have workstreams. Dlamini says it s untrue that the workstreams are excluding Sassa officials from their work.Dlamini says her department underestimated the amount of work involved in starting a bank to pay grants.She has told the NCOP s select committee on social services Sassa has to rely on so-called workstreams to lay the groundwork for the takeover of grants because the agency does not have the capacity.Dlamini says it was her understanding Treasury approved the workstreams which have already cost the department more than R40 million. Maybe we should accept that it was wrong for us to work with people that were from the advisory committee. We knew that they were going to make suggestions to Sassa and it would depend on Sassa whether they used their suggestions. (Edited by Zamangwane Shange)