A black high school student stood up and raised a point during one of the very first sessions at the Franschhoek Literary Festival earlier this month. His uniform decorated in the types of pins I had no interest in when I was his age: Badges commending his cultural, sporting and academic achievements. He was clearly middle class and he was educated. But he did not come from that. This fact does not need explaining if you know anything about the impact of apartheid and racism in South Africa.He was the only black student in the audience, and one of about three people of colour in total who were present, including myself. The rest of the crowds were the regulars who shuffled in. Year after year, the festival sells out to the same audience. Old white South Africans who can afford to eat at the boutique hotels in the little town and who consider themselves liberals.I was happy for teenager. His voice was confident and his point was valid. The talk (in a nutshell) was about food economy, farm workers and somewhere in all of that, the trade of produce. Of course, wages of said workers came up and this is when the boy chirped in. He said he came from a family of farmers. He is educated about the truths of the challenges farmworkers face, the element of slavery and how hard it is to survive. He mentioned the demographic in the room. He was apologetic about it. To paraphrase: I don t mean to offend anyone, but I look around this room and most of the people here are white. His point was that the exploitation of farm workers will continue as long as there is a lack of education and the more the audience - who form part of a demographic that controls a lot of buying power - distance themselves from the harsh realities, the more the challenges will perpetuate. Not that simple but accurate nonetheless.His disclaimer to not offend white people did not last long. Not only did the panel evade engagement with him but also, he was not even seated properly when the murmurs around me started. All the audience members in my immediate surroundings started clicking their tongues, sighing loudly and getting audibly frustrated with his opinion. He was dismissed. Not out loud, because liberals have to maintain a fa ade of being respectful South Africans and not like all the others . But they weren t exactly subtle either. What s he on about? , Ugh What s his point? This kind of crap was thrown about willy-nilly.On the one hand, I was shocked at the audacity that my presence could be ignored. Was I so insignificant that comments like this could be thrown around unashamedly and quite openly even though another person of colour was sitting right there? Was it so hard to admit the obvious truth? The audience was white - their experience and degree of education about certain things limited. There is nothing to be angry about just because a kid pointed that out.On the other hand, I was ashamed. It was easy to exist in an environment so safe and to be so entitled that as a white audience member, you could be a liberal, applauding the academic research of another liberal who is asking for equality for farm workers and in the very next breath, disregard and degrade a black student for calling you out on your lack of education. I was ashamed, because I let all that happen. Instead of saying something in that moment, instead of appealing to hearts and minds of these people who thought they were doing the right thing just by being there, I let it slide out of fear and sat there quietly. I should have said: Maybe instead of castigating him for sharing his truth, try and put yourself in his shoes, listen to what he is trying to say. And if you can t understand any of it, then at least have the courtesy to appreciate his contribution, even if you don t agree with it. But I didn t.Do you know what it takes to be a person of colour and stand up in a room full of privileged white people and make your voice heard? Do you know what it s like to have to issue a disclaimer that is completely unnecessary, before you share the facts just because you want to avoid the backlash that comes from stating the obvious? Do you know how difficult it is to construct the right sentences and make sure you re using the right words so that you don t offend the fragile ? I do. And that s why I didn t say anything that day, and it s because of people like me that reactions like that are still okay.There were only white people in that audience and every other audience at the literary festival. Like-minded is attracted to like-minded. Liberals feel good because other liberals make them feel good. But feeling good, is not being good. To be good you must feel bad, and then you must be better. You must look around after a black student states the obvious and nod in agreement because the proof is in the milk-tart, so to speak.Haji Mohamed Dawjee is a commentator on gender equality, sexuality, culture, race relations and feminism as well as ethics in the South African media environment.