KZN ANC's Mdumiseni Ntuli says despite the Inkatha Freedom Party&#8217;s allegations of rigging, the party says it believes the elections will be free and fair. DURBAN The KwaZulu-Natal African National Congress (ANC) says it has full confidence in the Independent Electoral Commission and its ability to hold free and fair elections in Nquthu on Wednesday.This comes amid allegations by some opposition parties that the ANC will try and rig the by-election.KZN ANC spokesperson Mdumiseni Ntuli says despite the Inkatha Freedom Party s allegations of rigging, the party says it believes the elections will be free and fair. Come Wednesday after the by-election, the ANC is available to be a new home of all those voters who would have deserted their parties because of the defeat they are going to suffer after 24 May election. Other parties such as the National Freedom Party, Democratic Alliance and Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) are in line to become the king makers in this election after winning no more than two seats in last year s government elections.According to the IEC, there are just over 81,000 registered voters, with special votes expected to get underway today.ANC AND ZUMA ARE CORRUPTAt the same time, EFF leader Julius Malema has urged Nquthu residents to vote against the ANC in Wednesday s by-elections to give them a taste of what s to come in 2019.Malema addressed dozens at the local taxi rank on Monday in a last attempt to woo residents to vote for his organisation.Political parties have been campaigning in the area over the last few weeks after the municipality was dissolved earlier this year.Malema has urged residents to choose wisely and vote for any other political party except the ANC. The ANC government never gave you water in this place but they built an R6 million swimming pool for Zuma. Malema also said the party has shown its track record of delivering on what it says. Just look at how much we ve saved you because, by the time we stopped Nkandla development, the money was paid back. The EFF leader urged residents to strongly consider changing their voting patterns to the ones they have been creating since 1994.At the same time, Malema has described the ANC as a corrupt kingdom ruled by President Jacob Zuma.The EFF leader said Zuma treats the ANC as his own personal kingdom, which is why his family continues to abuse state resources.He said Zuma has more sinister reasons for endorsing Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma to take over from him. When he came in, he moved Dlamini-Zuma to the African Union so that he can keep her safe and that she is not accused of corruption. So, when he leaves, he fetches her to come back to South Africa. Malema said if voters choose other political parties at Wednesday s poll, this will send a strong message to the ANC of what's to come in 2019.The EFF leader also made a strong plea to South African men to stop the abuse of women and children.(Edited by Leeto M Khoza)