Public Enterprises Minister Lynne Brown said she supported the decision of Eskom&#8217;s board that Brian Molefe goes back to his post. JOHANNESBURG/CAPE TOWN - The Democratic Alliance (DA) has confirmed it's going to court to challenge the reinstatement of Brian Molefe as the CEO of Eskom.Earlier on Friday, Public Enterprises Minister Lynne Brown said she supported the decision of Eskom s board that Molefe goes back to his post after she said that they could not give him a pension payout of R30 million.The DA's Natasha Mazzone said: We believe Molefe was never entitled to the R30 million in the first place and don t believe he qualified for early retirement as he is under the age of 55. He also only worked for Eskom for 21 months. Molefe's reinstatement has been condemned by the African National Congress (ANC), Cosatu, Corruption Watch and Business Leadership South Africa.The ANC's Zizi Kodwa says the party is embarrassed by minister Brown s comments. We are embarrassed because the minister seems to have endorsed what is called an illegal process and this is where most of the time courts rule against government, because government in most instances undermines the process. Molefe is not part of the institution, he was brought in and there was already a due process to fill the vacancy as an advertisement was out and people had applied. DECISIVE INVESTIGATION Minister Brown says she wants a decisive investigation into state capture to put to bed allegations against Molefe.At Friday afternoon's briefing where she confirmed she gave the greenlight for Molefe s sudden and controversial return to the parastatal.She said restoring the former ANC MP to his old position was a better option than giving him a R30 million pension payout.The minister told reporters allegations and claims of maladministration were doing a great disservice not only to state-owned companies, but also to the country. I would like to reiterate my call for a decisive investigation into allegations of maladministration raised in various reports, including the Public Protector s State of Capture report. Brown says she supports a judicial inquiry into claims that government is captured by the Gupta family, but she adds its establishment is in the hands the president.The minister would not be drawn on an ANC statement, which rejects Brian Molefe's reinstatement or preempts being called to a meeting at Luthuli House to account for the decision. URGENT MEETING The ANC says it wants an urgent meeting with Brown about Brian's reinstatement.Brown believes Eskom will benefit from Molefe's return, while Kodwa says they want an urgent meeting with Brown. To reinstate him is to undermine the very same public perception of corruption, including the reality or corruption. Business Leadership SA Chair Jabu Mabuza says he wants to know how Molefe could return to Eskom after claiming he was resigning in the best interest of the country. It makes a mockery of Molefe s own words when he left under the cloud he left in. And Cosatu's deputy general secretary Solly Phetoe says this has deeper implications. Totally, we re being undermined by the of the ANC government. We re seriously being undermined. Corruption Watch says it s already writing to Molefe and Eskom board warning them of imminent legal action.(Edited by Winnie Theletsane)