Brian Molefe returned to Eskom as its CEO on Monday after resigning last year following the Public Protector&#8217;s 'State of Capture' report. PRETORIA - African National Congress (ANC) secretary-general Gwede Mantashe has confirmed that the party's top six have requested Public Enterprises Minister Lynne Brown deal with the issue of Brian Molefe s reappointment at Eskom.Molefe returned to the power utility as its CEO on Monday after resigning last year following the Public Protector s State of Capture report, which showed he had been in regular contact with the Gupta family while they were buying a coal mine that supplies Eskom.The ANC has condemned his return.Mantashe says they now expect Brown to take action. We said deal with it. We re very uncomfortable with that posting because it s causing a lot of uncertainty and disquiet in society. New allegations emerged in an AmaBhungane exclusive on Eyewitness News against Molefe and Eskom chairperson Ben Ngubane that they pressed former Mining Minister Ngoako Ramatlhodi to blackmail resources giant Glencore to ensure a Gupta company could take over Optimum coal mine.Eskom has denied these claims but political analysts believe that more former ministers may come forward with allegations about the Gupta family and their relationship with state-owned entities, Cabinet members and President Jacob Zuma.Political analyst Ralph Mathekga says Ramatlhodi's allegations cannot simply be dismissed. There s something that s been said by a minister who s been at the coal face of this matter. I think what we re seeing here is there seems to be a willingness among members of ANC and I think we might see this increasing. Those who ve been shuffled out of Cabinet and centre of power because they could not further certain interests. Political commentator Sipho Seepe agrees. You have a president whose term is coming to an end those who feel they ve been wrong done by him will be coming out and saying a lot of things. The Gupta family says it's not commenting at this stage, while Eskom has vehemently rejected these allegations.Read the full investigative report by amaBhungane here.(Edited by Zamangwane Shange)