The 90 local SMMEs were selected from over 300 applicants to take part in the Department of Tourism's SME Marketing Access programme. DURBAN - Ninety small, medium and micro enterprises (SMMEs) made their debut at this year's Tourism Indaba. They were selected from over 300 applicants to take part in the Department of Tourism's SME Marketing Access programme. SA Tourism's Amanda Kotze-Nhlapo says the businesses went through thorough training in preparation for the indaba. "You need to be able to sell, and that is why we trained them. They've been training since January in their respective provinces and ultimately at national level after being selected." She says business principles were at the core of the training. "They only have a few seconds to impress a buyer and we had to get them ready for that. We don't want them to start up, only to fail after a few months because they are just overwhelmed." As the indaba draws to a close on Thursday evening, Kotze-Nhlapo says the relationship between the department and the SMMEs will be a long-term one. "We want them to succeed. We want to add them to our itineraries and there is a number they call for support." She adds that these businesses' authenticity and personal touch is what the world is looking for. Once again, the youth came into focus in the selection of these gems. Kotze-Nhlapo says the selection process specifically targeted the youth in order to broaden the focus of what the country has to offer. Among them is the owner of Lapologa Bed and Breakfast Granny Matsaung who already has two establishments under her name - one in Tzaneen and another in Phalaborwa. Matsaung says she is trying to bridge the gap between tourists and available accommodation. "I used to travel a lot in my previous job, so my passion for travelling is what made me start my own B&B." She says the training provided by the SA Tourism has already started bearing fruits. "It has helped me a lot; most of the people I've had meetings with showed interest and so we will see how that turns out in future." Also making their Indaba debut is Africa Ignite, a rural development agency based in KwaZulu-Natal. The company takes tourists on routes with overnight accommodation and activities planned along the way. Africa Ignite's Joslyn Walker says, "You can sip a cup of coffee while listening to story tellers, stop at a chisanyama, have craft lessons and plant an indigenous tree at the Isimangaliso Park among others." There are seven different destinations around the province under Africa Ignite’s umbrella, each with a unique route. Meanwhile, SA Tourism CEO Sisa Ntshona says there is a growing appetite for domestic tourism. He says the department has initiatives which will see tourism reaching for greater heights. "One of the initiatives we've started is partnering with stokvels. How do we get people to move in bulks? We want every citizen to know this country - and that will also contribute to a boost in international tourist numbers." In March, a Stats SA survey revealed that domestic tourism was declining. The survey collects information to understand the travel behaviour of people in South Africa in order to determine the contribution of tourism to the economy. The report said, "The total number of day trips taken decreased from 54.4 million in 2013 to 48 million in 2014 and decreased further to 44.3 million in 2015. Overnight trips also declined from 50.8 million in 2013 to 47.3 million in 2014 and 45.4 million in 2015." #indaba2017 #shotleft #GoodTimesInABox #WeDoTourism If you are looking to contribute to growing SA's Hidden Gems as you tour the country, these are the businesses to contact. A post shared by Eyewitness News (@ewnupdates) on May 18, 2017 at 3:30am PDT 