SACP general secretary Blade Nzimande says he will continue speaking truth to power without fearing to lose his ministerial position. JOHANNESBURG South African Communist Party (SACP) general secretary Blade Nzimande says the lack of leadership in the African National Congress (ANC) has resulted in an internal stalemate in the national executive committee (NEC) while revealing that some people have been threatened in NEC meetings.President Zuma survived a second motion of no confidence at the party's executive meeting held over the weekend.Nzimande delivered the SACP s message of support at Congress of South African Trade Unions central committee meeting in Pretoria on Monday. Some of them are threatening us in the meetings. We re being threatened because we re supposed to keep quiet. We re not going to keep quiet. Nzimande says there is an open faction in the ANC which does what it likes without being dealt with. There s an internal stalemate in the national executive committee. These comrades can t provide leadership. Nzimande says he will continue speaking truth to power without fearing to lose his ministerial position. It s not because we re interested in positions, don t insult us. It s because if you re an MEC or a minister, we re wielding state power, we re interested in state power. He says the ANC must not expect SACP leaders not to close ranks when the party is doing wrong.WILL NOT STOP TALKING TRUTH TO POWERNzimande said the president is making the same mistakes that former President Thabo Mbeki made. The fact that the last Cabinet reshuffle happened outside the alliance and ANC is a problem and an abuse of the prerogative. The prerogative does not belong you an individual, it belongs to us as the movement. He said just because he is a minister in the president's Cabinet, he will not stop talking truth to power, because he is not begging for a position. We are serving our government because we are serving our people, not because we re serving individuals. Nzimande repeated calls for the president to leave office, saying he s making the same mistakes that Mbeki made in his bid to create an imperial presidency.(Edited by Leeto M Khoza)