DA leader Mmusi Maimane says a ruling that President Jacob Zuma must hand over all records explaining his Cabinet reshuffle is a crucial one. CAPE TOWN Democratic Alliance (DA) leader Mmusi Maimane says a ruling that President Jacob Zuma must hand over all records explaining his Cabinet reshuffle is a crucial one. On Thursday Zuma was ordered to supply all documents explaining why he reshuffled his Cabinet on 30 March. In court papers, Zuma said the DA s urgent application was without merit, arguing it was an executive decision that deserved protection from disclosure.Maimane says the DA wants the president to rationally explain how he makes decisions concerning the country. For an ordinary South African, this is a victory for South Africans because it says while the president might act as one who s rogue, our courts are coming back to reaffirm that the executive is accountable. Zuma told senior African National Congress (ANC) officials that he relied on an intelligence report which accused Pravin Gordhan and Mcebisi Jonas of conspiring against him.In its argument, the DA s advocate Steven Budlender refers to public comments made by Cyril Ramaphosa, Jackson Mthembu and Zweli Mkhize, confirming Zuma s reliance on an intelligence report.The party s James Selfe says it is now common cause that such a report was used to fire Gordhan. If the president doesn t produce that report, we d want to know what happened to it and what weight was attached to it because the importance of this application is that the president can t now invent reasons with the benefit of hindsight. Judge Bashier Vally will deliver his full judgment next week. ZUMA WILL BE BOUND BY WHAT HE DISCLOSES The DA says if Zuma complies with the court order handed down on Thursday, he will be held to account for whatever he says or reveals in a later application to review his Cabinet reshuffle.Selfe said Zuma will be bound by what he discloses in terms of the High Court order. But the important thing is that whatever reason he provides he will be held to in the subsequent review applications. If he simply, at this stage, says it was a political decision then we re going to test that political decision on the rationality of it and the effect it had on the country. (Edited by Leeto M Khoza)