Four years ago, millions were stolen from a safe room at the stadium in the hours following Justin Bieber's concert. JOHANNESBURG - As Justin Bieber is set to play at FNB Stadium this weekend, the country's top stadium security expert Patrick Ronan says measures are in place to prevent a break in such as the one that occurred the last time the singer was in town. Four years ago, millions were stolen from a safe room at the stadium in the hours following Bieber s concert. No arrests were made and the money was never recovered. The man who was in charge of the investigation for Big Concerts has since raised questions about the security at the stadium and the investigation by the police. Ronan wrote government's legislation on stadium safety and security.He says he believes considerable steps have been taken by stadium management and Big Concerts to ensure a similar break-in is avoided. This includes cash being removed from the site and better vetting of all staff. Certainly, there has been a bigger focus on the screening of staff at the stadium, this includes the police screening of all casual staff at these events. Perhaps they didn t do that in the past. He says technically, Big Concerts hire the stadium and is responsible for all safety and security at the event. He says he believes that stadium officials and Big Concerts have taken considerable steps to improve safety and security at venues. Ronan has raised questions about the investigation into the heist and the security at the stadium. Shortly after the 2013 heist, he was brought in by Stadium Management South Africa to consult on safety and security at its venues. There has been some learnings obviously from the unfortunate incident four years ago. Reasonable steps have been taken in my view. The one, in particular, being the introduction of enhanced cash management for all events. Four years after the break-in, millions are still missing but police say the case remains open.WATCH: Hunting for the missing Bieber millions - 4 years later(Edited by Winnie Theletsane)