The SACP also says the protest won't stop them from their public criticism of President Jacob Zuma. JOHANNESBURG - The South African Communist Party s (SACP) Solly Mapaila says the only reason people from a group called the MK Foundation held a protest outside his home on Tuesday was to intimidate him and to stop him from criticising President Jacob Zuma.Meanwhile, MK Military Veterans Association leader Kebby Maphatsoe says his group has nothing to do with the gathering, but refused to condemn those who went to Mapaila's house.The SACP is also demanding that Zuma distance himself from those who held this protest in his name.Maphatsoe says he can't condemn this march, even though it was outside a politician's private home. To condemn the march is like condemning South Africans from their constitutional right to march. Everyone has the right to march. While Mapaila says there's only one reason why this happened. There must be an intimidator programme, so that Zuma and his cronies can continue to loot state resources. The SACP also says this won't stop them from their public criticism of Zuma.Meanwhile, SACP general secretary Blade Nzimande says that party leaders phones are being bugged.Speaking to Talk Radio 702's Xolani Gwala, Nzimande shared concerns about the future of South Africa. We won't keep quiet. As the SACP, we were never supporting an individual. We were supporting a leadership that would emerge and actually address some of the things that were going wrong, which is an alliance that was not functioning properly. This was not being adequately consulted and so on. If we keep quiet it's going to kill our country and our alliance. SHAKY ALLIANCEThe SACP, together with the ANC and Congress of South African Trade Unions, make up the tripartite alliance which was established in 1990.In March, the SACP said it was not scared to break away from the ANC and contest elections on its own.The party has appeared to become more frustrated with ANC decisions over the last few months and has called for Zuma's resignation.(Edited by Shimoney Regter)