Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa has already indicated that there&#8217;s a need for the ANC to discuss calls for Zuma to leave office. JOHANNESBURG - As the African National Congress (ANC) prepares to hold its crucial national executive committee (NEC) meeting on Friday afternoon, there are possibilities that another motion of no confidence in President Jacob Zuma will be tabled.The meeting comes after the president reshuffled his Cabinet, seemingly without adequately consulting the party's top brass, leading to the country being downgraded to junk status by two ratings agencies.The Saint George s Hotel could become a battleground as pro- and anti-president Zuma supporters meet at the NEC meeting.Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa has already indicated that there s a need for the ANC to discuss calls for Zuma to leave office. The issue came up once in November. A number of comrades raised the matter for the president to step down. That matter was not taken any further. In the end, it s a matter the ANC will have to discuss. This NEC meeting comes after the party's alliance partners, the South African Communist Party and Congress of South African Trade Unions, called on the president to step down while thousands of South Africans took part in nationwide marches echoing the same sentiment.While some ANC members may charge against Zuma, his supporters in the NEC have told Eyewitness News they are ready to defend him and thwart any calls for a motion of no confidence in the president.The stakes are high as NEC members, particularly the party's top brass, are going into the gathering more divided than before.NO INTEREST IN SIDESHOWSThe meeting follows growing calls for Zuma to step down after his controversial cabinet reshuffle in April which resulted in two ratings agencies downgrading the country to junk status.Some ANC NEC members have told Eyewitness News that they will push for the meeting to discuss calls by the party s alliance partners for Zuma to step down.They also want the gathering to address the South African Council of Churches (SACC) unburdening report, which revealed an inappropriate control of the state by people close to Zuma.ANC NEC Member Lindiwe Zulu has told Eyewitness News that they won t entertain calls for the president to step down. Those ones who want sideshows, it s their business. As far as the leadership of the ANC is concerned, we focus more on taking South Africa to the next level and strengthening the ANC. But ANC stalwarts that have already called on the president to step down have written another open letter to the NEC, calling on the structure to consider recalling the President as head of government.The meeting is also expected to decide on whether or not to open the succession debate, therefore allowing presidential hopefuls to campaign freely.STATE CAPTUREBut University of Johannesburg politics professor Mcebisi Ndletyana says this won't change the minds of everyone in the NEC.Questions are being asked about whether a state capture report will influence today's ANC NEC meeting.This comes after a group of academics, in the report, claimed that Zuma and the Gupta family have mounted a silent coup in South Africa.The academics released their report on Thursday, which they say shows how Zuma and a network involving his family and the Guptas have taken over the state.Wits University academic Lumkile Mondi says their report shows how some people played key roles in changing state agencies.Mondi says it's clear what's happened if you join the dots. The current regime has taken over our state and made it into a shadow state. This is a problem, as it undermines all our institutions, including state enterprises. But University of Johannesburg political professor Mcebisi Ndletyana says NEC members will only move against Zuma if they think it's safe to do so.He also says many people in the NEC benefit from Zuma staying on in the Union Buildings. Those who benefit from him being in power will not be moved by this because moving against Zuma means threatening their own interests. Read 'Betrayal of the promise: How South Africa is being stolen' below: Betrayal of a Promise FINAL by Primedia Broadcasting on Scribd(Edited by Shimoney Regter)