High-performing employees should not have to worry about being recognised for good work and how your manager might perceive it. Are you starting to feel stressed about outshining your boss? Are you dreading the possibility that your manager will learn of the award you received?High-performing employees should not have to worry about being recognised for good work and how your manager might perceive it. But some managers are not leaders. Some managers do not see their people s successes as their successes. Some people see the achievements of others as a threat.Don t hide your awards from your colleagues. Don t stop pursuing recognition. It is not so much the recognition itself that may be threatening. Rather, it is how others perceive the recognition it is about you and only you. Here are three ways high-performing employees can prevent resentment and further demonstrate your leadership:1. Show how the recognition benefits your manager and the company.Thank your manager and colleagues for their support. Share how they have helped you to reach your potential and that it is a reflection of team effort. For example, thank them for providing you stretch opportunities, access to company executives or the time to take a class to develop your skills.Awards are not all about you. The saying, It takes a village applies to more than raising children. It applies to developing leaders, as well. Recognise and be humble that your success is not your success alone but the collective success and the result of help from others.2. Give back knowledge, and add value.Identify how you can share what you learned with others. Hold a seminar, webinar or brown bag lunch to share the knowledge that got you the recognition. Giving back helps your manager and colleagues see that you are grateful, sharing and collaborative. It demonstrates your desire to see others grow and succeed, as well.3. Submit your manager s name for consideration.If you manager is deserving, be on the look out for opportunities where they can be recognised, as well. When you receive an award, organisations often solicit nominations from awardees. Also, look for recognitions that your organisation awards its employees. Look for awards given out by professional associations. As a starting point, you can even search Google for awards for which your manager might be a good candidate.The ability to recognise others does not just flow down stream. Just because your manager may be higher up on the totem pole does not mean you can t recognise him or her. You have the power and the leadership opportunity to recognise the work of others, no matter their relationship to you.Jack Welch says, When you become a leader, success is about growing others. Leaders want others to succeed. They value and recognise people s strengths. If you don t have a leader for a boss, don t let this chill your pursuit of recognition from your peers and community. Just make sure the recognition is not all about you and adds value to others.Written by Avery Blank, a contributor at Forbes.his article was republished courtesy of the World Economic Forum.