Bidvest Wits coach Gavin Hunt says his boys executed their plan perfectly. JOHANNESBURG - Wits have won the first Premiership title in the club's history after beating Polokwane City 2-0 with goals from James Keene and Daine Klate.The Clever Boys were assisted by Maritzburg United, who held Mamelodi Sundowns to a 2-2 draw.This is Gavin Hunt's 4th championship and a record 6th for Klate, making him the most successful player in the league's history.Hunt says his boys executed their plan perfectly.&quot;I thought the defence, from the front to the back, was good. We were disappointed last week, with the way we played because we got bullied a little bit and conceded those goals and I knew that we could do it this week if we just stick to what were good at and we did. And I'm proud of the team.&quot;Hunt says this title had their name on it.&quot;To be fair, we should have won this league, you know that. We stumbled... in December we drew four games and we should have been well clear but we got ourselves back in the race. Anytime you get 60 points and above, you've done well.&quot;#AbsaPrem Please put some respect on this man's name. I don't know why he's yet to be considered for Bafana. #GavinHuntIsGOAT pic.twitter.com/TQYf72Lrm5 how the wheels have turned #AbsaPrem pic.twitter.com/sXlwo3HdgSHunt says he selected a championship winning side for the game.&quot;If you look at the team I've picked tonight, I said to myself 'well if they can't do it, then nobody can do it.' I put all of those guys back into the team and thought 'well, it's the only ones we have left anyway.' Guys like (Elias) Pelembe and Dane (Klate) were immense, absolutely immense.&quot;Daine 'The Kingmaker' Klate He's won six of the last 10 #AbsaPrem titles since 2008. Proper player, proper pro. pic.twitter.com/dggsA10iv8Maybe we should buy Daine Klate at Kaizer Chiefs to win #AbsaPrem title, the title is following him wherever he goes. pic.twitter.com/j8GiA1xbG8Klate says this victory has been four years in the making.&quot;I've watched this club for the last for seasons and they've come close. Last season again, we came close. This season we managed to do it and credit to the technical team, the management team and credit to Wits as a whole.&quot;Klate says they were worried about themselves.&quot;Lucky for me, I'm happy that I am able to contribute towards the team. But we went into the half-time break and we said the next goal has to be ours and that goal was very, very crucial to us and getting the three points, we were only focused on the three points. Whatever happened in the Sundowns game was never really on our minds. At halftime, we didn't even know what the score was. At the end of the game, we didn't know. We celebrated our three points.&quot;Klate says teamwork was the secret to their success.&quot;Last season we had some injuries towards the end, this season again a lot of injuries. But everybody played their part. Nobody in the media is talking about who is going to be player of the season at Bidvest Wits because we focus on ourselves and we're not an individualistic team.&quot;