The board have been unhappy with the company's performance and sought reassurance that investments in self-driving cars, electric vehicles and ride services would pay off. WASHINGTON/DEARBORN Ford Motor Co on Monday named James Hackett, who heads its unit developing self-driving cars, as chief executive officer, responding to investors' growing unease about the US automaker's stock price and prospects.Hackett, 62, a former CEO of furniture manufacturer Steelcase Inc, will take the helm in a broader shake-up aimed at speeding up decision-making and improving operations. He replaces Mark Fields, 56, who spent less than three years as CEO.Ford shares were up 1.7% t at $11.06 in morning trading. At Friday's close, they had fallen 37% since Fields took over three years ago, at the peak of the US auto industry's recovery.Now US sales are slipping. The company's profits are trailing those of larger rival General Motors, whose shares fell 13% over the same period, and Ford's market capitalization has fallen behind electric car maker Tesla Inc's.Executive Chairman Bill Ford Jr. and the board have been unhappy with the company's performance and sought reassurance that investments in self-driving cars, electric vehicles and ride services would pay off. The Ford family controls the automaker through a special class of voting rights stock.Ford Jr. told reporters at a news conference that the automaker needs to make decisions faster.&quot;We have to modernise the business&quot; and move &quot;decisively to address underperforming areas,&quot; he said.The automaker has had a long-time obsession with hierarchy, he said, calling the new CEO a cultural change agent. Former Ford CEO Alan Mulally &quot;really captured the hearts and minds of our employees ... and I think that s something you will see with Jim. Hackett, a former football player at the University of Michigan and interim athletic director, was named chairman of the Ford Smart Mobility LLC subsidiary in 2016 to focus on emerging businesses that include ridesharing and autonomous vehicles.Ford said in February it was investing $1 billion in artificial intelligence company Argo AI to develop a virtual driver system for the automaker s autonomous vehicle coming in 2021.CHALLENGING TIMESFord, who had been CEO before replacing himself in 2006 with Mulally, is the great-grandson of company founder Henry Ford.The company has churned out strong profits on his watch, reporting a record $10.4 billion in pretax earnings in 2016.However, investors were concerned by a weak first quarter and lower profit forecast for 2017, as well as higher costs for investments in &quot;emerging opportunities.&quot;Tesla was valued at $51 billion on Friday, more than Ford's $43 billion. The contrast shows investors' faltering confidence that old-line automakers can make the transition to a future where software substitutes for pistons and transportation is sold by the mile or the minute.At the same time, GM is turning up the pressure in the North American truck and sport utility business, the source of 90% of Ford's earnings.GM is gearing up an &quot;onslaught&quot; of trucks for that region, President Dan Ammann told Reuters last week, including a new generation of the Chevrolet Silverado large pickup that competes with Ford's primary profit machine, the F-series line.Ford also tangled with President Donald Trump, who spent more than a year criticising the automaker on the campaign trail for expanding operations in Mexico.But Trump praised Ford in January for scrapping a planned Mexican car factory and announcing plans to add 700 jobs in Michigan. Fields, who has made several trips to the White House this year, said Ford would have made the decision regardless of who was president.