The parastatal confirmed Brian Molefe's return, five months after he stepped down after being implicated in the Public Protector's state of capture report. CAPE TOWN - The Democratic Alliance (DA) says it will be asking Parliament to launch a full-scale investigation into Eskom's decision to re-appoint Brian Molefe as its CEO.The parastatal confirmed his return, five months after he stepped down after being implicated in the Public Protector's state of capture report.Eskom board spokesperson Khulani Qoma on Friday confirmed that Molefe would return to work on Monday, saying that the board decided to rescind Molefe s pension payout because Public Enterprises Minister Lynne Brown was not happy about it and decided to come up with a mutually acceptable option to offer Molefe his job back.DA leader Mmusi Maimane says Molefe has a cloud hanging over his head and should not be allowed to return to Eskom, let along lead the parastatal. Molefe does not belong in Parliament, he was never an honourable member and he doesn t deserve to be CEO of Eskom. He should face criminal charges. He says the party is now consulting its lawyers as to whether there are grounds for an interdict. We re enquiring if we can get an interdict of such actions because you can t have an entity like Eskom being captured in that regard. The DA says this is a crucial time for opposition parties to stand together to guard the interests of the country. Meanwhile, the African National Congress has labelled Molefe's re-appointment as reckless.ANC spokesperson Zizi Kodwa says the party wants to meet with Brown to question why such a decision was taken.&quot;We don't think there can be any convincing really for the board to arrive at that decision. Firstly, she took the correct decision earlier by rejecting the R30 million retirement demand. And we think even in this context, she has to do what was in the public interest.&quot;The Organisation Undoing Tax Abuse (Outa) says Molefe s return is illegal because procedure was completely flouted.Outa s Ted Blom says the organisation regards this a new appointment. They re trying to rationalise it by saying they ve rescinded their previous decision. Once an appointment contract has been terminated it cannot be revived. You can t rescind that decision again, it has to be a new appointment. Brown has called a briefing in Cape Town on Friday afternoon.(Edited by Zamangwane Shange)