SACP leader Blade Nzimande says what happened in Bloemfontein sends a strong message to alliance leaders. BLOEMFONTEIN - Leaders from both the South African Communist Party (SACP) and Congress of South African Trade Unions (Cosatu) have described Monday as a sad day.This after African National Congress (ANC) and union members booed President Jacob Zuma at Congress of South African Trade Union's (Cosatu) main May Day rally in Bloemfontein.SACP leader Blade Nzimande says what happened in Bloemfontein sends a strong message to alliance leaders. I think we should use this as the ultimate wake up call. Cosatu President Sdumo Dlamini says what happened is regrettable. It s sad that after a successful march, which was well attended by the workers and the alliance as a whole, we were unable to proceed with the programme due to chaos from members. The alliance leaders say they will meet to analysed Monday s event and come up with a programme of action to unite workers.#WorkersDay Anti-Zuma protests at Loch Logan park in Bloemfontein.KG pic.twitter.com/eAnhRYvf1VPresident Zuma left the gathering without speaking after scuffles broke out between those who wanted him there and those who didn't. At least three Cosatu affiliates last week publicly called for the federation to prevent Zuma from speaking, claiming allowing the president to address the rally would contradict Cosatu's call for Zuma's resignation. Dlamini and ANC NEC member Naledi Pandor were also booed at the same event. #WorkersDay President Zuma is now sitting in the car as chaos unfolds here at the park. Unclear if he will leave. CM pic.twitter.com/2eEU8pVLwW#WorkersDay WATCH opposing groups now have traditional weapons. Threaten each other. CM pic.twitter.com/05VflVy1smIt s understood the booing came from members of affiliates South African Democratic Teachers Union (Sadtu) and National Health Education and Allied Workers Union, who were opposed to Zuma.The federation was forced to call off proceedings amid scuffles.DEEP DIVISIONS IN THE ALLIANCEDivisions in the tripartite alliance have been laid bare on Monday.The ANC in the Free State has described Monday's events as embarrassing for the president and the ANC-led alliance, with Cosatu conceding what happened speaks to the deep divisions in the alliance. Some members chanted songs in support of Zuma while others boed. It was after this reaction that the rally collapsed and descended into chaos with opposing unions and groups threatening each other. Free State ANC chairperson Ace Magashule says they are deeply embarrassed. Indeed, it s an embarrassment when the leadership is divided. It clearly shows that they re dividing membership on this ground. Dlamini agrees that the ANC alliance is divided. The issue here is divisions. It s a matter that requires a thorough reflection by all of us. Traditional weapons were brandished as scuffles broke out between supporters of the president and those who didn't want him to address the rally.#Cosatu Cronin says the 2nd threat comes from those who loot the state, loot social grants etc. MK pic.twitter.com/GGGFT6S5HdDID COSATU PLAN ZUMA BOOING?This is the first time President Zuma has been booed outside of Gauteng, the first time he's been booed at an alliance event and the first time he's been prevented from speaking at an event. At the same time, it appears other ANC officials associated with Zuma have also been booed in KwaZulu-Natal and the North West. That could suggest this action was planned in advance. But it also shows that Cosatu members are frustrated with Zuma's refusal to leave office and marks a turning point in his relationship with the federation. However, there could also be implications for some of Cosatu's leaders, including Dlamini, for letting him come to the Bloemfontein event in the first place.#Cosatu Marchers arrive at the JSE. MK pic.twitter.com/9PVYzRs3sM ANC S ELECTIVE CONFERENCE IS KEY ANC Secretary General Gwede Mantashe says the party s elective conference should choose a leader that shows society that it is serious about eliminating state capture and looting. Mantashe was speaking at the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE), where the SACP and Cosatu delivered a memorandum.They are calling for an end to capitalism and the de-listing of companies that underpay and exploit workers.The SACP's Jeremy Cronin says the JSE is the product of workers hard work and low wages. Mantashe says the Johannesburg-leg of the May Day rally with Cosatu is a sign of unity.But he says the party is evidently going though issues of factionalism. He added December s conference is key. If the message we send to society, that looting is continuing in the form of the leadership we elect, I can tell you that we may as well kiss 2019 goodbye. At the same time, Cosatu's Bheki Ntshalintshali has reiterated his support for Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa, adding that he would be a sensible choice and better president.(Edited by Zamangwane Shange)