Pravin Gordhan lashed out the Eskom board, saying it was living in its own oblivion and treating Eskom like a personal toy. CAPE TOWN Former finance minister Pravin Gordhan has challenged Eskom board to come clean about what's really going on at the state power utility.Gordhan gave the board a dressing down on Tuesday during Parliament's public enterprises committee meeting, where he now serves as an ordinary Member of Parliament.The committee called on Public Enterprises Minister Lynne Browne and Eskom board chairperson Ben Ngubane to explain the controversial reinstatement of Brian Molefe as CEO.But Gordhan wanted to know whether the board is afraid to declare its recent activities because of legal implications. If there is such a thing as conscious, I think we re too late for that, but if there was such a thing as conscious, we are handling a major public entity that belongs to the public of South Africa. Then maybe there s a new option that has been opened since last Thursday, with the South African Church Council saying come and unburden yourself. He reminded the board that the financial management of SOEs was one of the major concerns of ratings agencies. I don t think credit rating is one of the plus factors you want to claim for yourselves right now, in terms of the sovereign. CHALLENGE THE MEDIA?The former finance minister has questioned why Eskom has not challenged any media reports alleging impropriety.Gordhan accused the board of abusing state resources to benefit a few.He lashed out at the board, saying it was living in its own oblivion and treating Eskom like a personal toy and was not buying self-praise from board members who said the entity was in a sound financial position. Numbers can speak all sorts of games and stories. Auditors only check a sample of transactions and hopefully, it's representative of what's going on. He wanted to know why the board had not taken legal steps against the media. If Dr Naidoo and Dr Ngubane are so proficient as directors why haven't they challenged this if these are lies? Otherwise, we have to accept them as the truth. Gordhan also had a word of advice for Minister Brown, saying she should consider using her powers to fire the board sooner, rather than later.MOLEFE'S ILLEGAL REAPPOINTMENTParliament's public enterprises committee says it still considers Molefe s reappointment as illegal.This is despite explanations offered by Brown and Ngubane in Parliament on Tuesday. The African National Congress's parliamentary caucus wants Molefe s reappointment to be rescinded immediately and says it supports the committee's decision to launch an inquiry. Brown says she believed Molefe had resigned and indicated she would only support his return if it was legal. I believe that Eskom would obtain more value from having Molefe at work than simply paying out the R30 million. Ngubane is sticking by the story that Molefe had applied for early retirement in December and had not resigned. We acted on the best advice that this country s legal eagles can provide. The Economic Freedom Fighters' Floyd Shivambu has questioned the legality of Molefe having served as an MP since the Constitution prohibits parliamentarians from simultaneously holding a position in the public service, but no answers were forthcoming. (Edited by Winnie Theletsane)