 The public is becoming increasingly aware that you are abusing state property, and state resources in the name of yourselves and not in the name of the state public. This is about capturing Eskom for the benefit of the few, that's the reality. We've reached a stage in managing governance in South Africa where there are a significant number of people in bureaucracy and elsewhere who are taking a view that says: 'I don't care if you know what I'm doing; I don't care how many reports the Public Protector or anyone else provides because I am protected.' The question is, by whom and at what cost. One could hear the proverbial pin drop. Former Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan was pulling no punches during Tuesday s Public Enterprises committee meeting in Parliament. The committee had summoned Minister Lynne Brown to explain the controversial and confusing reinstatement of Eskom CEO Brian Molefe.To say the reinstatement was extraordinary is an understatement. The reasons for his return seem to have shifted multiple times. At first we heard Molefe had been spirited back to Eskom after his brief and opportunistic stint as an MP because he had not actually resigned in November last year. This despite the fact that Molefe himself had held a tearful press conference resigning and Brown had accepted his resignation in November 2016. After a storm of public criticism this version changed and we were told he took an early retirement instead. And then, without pause, we were given version three - Molefe may have taken unpaid leave. That would have meant he was on leave as CEO of Eskom, yet an MP at the same time.Brown, flanked by the Eskom board and its chair Ben Ngubane, told the committee that hers was an honest mistake. The board has misinformed her and at all times she thought Molefe had resigned.It was all rather surreal. Brown has gone on affidavit to say this and the ANC is already saying she has committed perjury.Wherever the truth lies, her discomfort throughout the hearing was palpable. She sought to disguise this by waffling her way through the pieces of legislation that govern Eskom and explaining its developmental agenda . All this was irrelevant to the matter at hand. She did admit, however, that there were issues within Eskom and had now undertaken to institute an enquiry.The board itself spoke through Ngubane and fellow board member Pat Naidoo. Both also blustered their way through the questions seeking to make the case that Eskom is a model of corporate governance. Brown and the board denied that they had been instructed by anyone to reinstate Molefe. No one in the room seemed that convinced.As Brown continued to contort she said the matter was being left to government . She is part of government and seems very hesitant to take leadership and deal with the Eskom board. She has also shown little appetite to deal with the Public Protector s findings that some of its members were appointed in an irregular manner and it has presided over breaches of corporate governance. One wonders why she has not exercised oversight more keenly? What is holding her back? Or, rather, who? At the very least, Brown should be incensed that the board misled her into going on record to accept Molefe s resignation in November. Yet, her response is one of passivity.The politics at play was laid bare for all to see. Brown and the board uncomfortably tried to bat away Gordhan s questions. Here was a former Minister of Finance taking on his colleague in an open forum and asking difficult questions about state capture . Brown understood the gravity of the exchange.If anyone knows where some skeletons are hidden, it s Gordhan. It is for this reason that having someone like Gordhan exercise oversight, as an ordinary MP, is such a powerful statement. But it is more than that; it shows yet again the deep divisions within the ANC and that this is now filtering into the parliamentary caucus too. Whoever deployed Gordhan to the Public Enterprises committee was doing so deliberately. It was also no coincidence either that last week ANC chief whip Jackson Mthembu committed to the establishment of an ad hoc multi-party committee on party funding. Of course, the motion of no confidence vote which is forthcoming will show us just how far the ANC caucus is prepared to go in tackling Zuma and his band of corrupt associates. We have to wait for the ConCourt s verdict on whether that vote will be secret or not too.Tuesday, however, was Parliament at its very best. The meeting was open and packed with journalists and any member of the public. The ANC was engaged and not providing Brown and the board any cover, while the opposition beavered away asking questions. The committee seems set to institute a Parliamentary inquiry into the Molefe matter now.So the sands are shifting, even if very slowly.The ANC NEC holds its meeting this weekend. It would be unwise for us to hold our collective breath and thinking that Zuma will be recalled. The balance of forces, while it may be shifting slowly, does not favour an immediate recall. Also, it is not merely about removing Zuma, but rather tackling an entire project aimed at capturing the state.We know this: the months ahead will be messy and we can expect some contradictory messages from the fractured ANC as one faction seeks to gain ground over the other. The provincial battles will be dirty and possibly even bloody for there is much at stake as even the ANC alliance partners turn on Zuma.The tragedy of it all is that members of Zuma s Cabinet and those within the ANC, like Brown, who blindly support Zuma and his corrupt project, have hitched their wagon to a fading star. Brown s own reputation lies in shards - she knows that. As Gordhan asked pointedly, how will history record your role? How indeed.Judith February is based at the Institute for Security Studies. Follow her on Twitter: @judith_february