Officers have once again opened fire on demonstrators who are demanding land and a solution to unemployment in their community. ELDORADO PARK - Looting has spread from Eldorado Park to Nancefield in the south of Johannesburg on Monday evening.It's being reported crowds of people are gathered at the industrial area following running battles between police and residents of Eldorado Park earlier.Police are currently patrolling Freedom Park where several filling stations have been destroyed.The police's Lungelo Dlamini said, The situation in Eldorado Park and Freedom Park is tense. Police are in the area but we heard that there s been looting at filling stations in those areas. Police went there for an investigation. As police nyalas continue to circle Eldorado Park another liquor store has just been looted, while 12 people have already been arrested for looting. Groups of angry residents are patrolling barricaded roads, preventing any vehicle from coming in or out of the area. While community leaders have condemned the looting of stores, some angry residents have taken matters into their own hands. They say protests will continue well into the evening as well as on Tuesday. They've criticised police for reacting with violence to their protests. Charis Pretorius from the Eldorado Park Business Forum says the looting is a criminal activity that has sadly becomes part of the protests because some people see the opportunity. We are not all drug dealers, drug users, car thieves or whatever it is that the world perceives us to be. She says it s sad the stigma Eldorado Park has. There is this stereotypical idea that Eldorado Park is a den of thieves, criminals and murderers but that is not necessarily true. Officers earlier opened fire on demonstrators who are demanding land and a solution to unemployment in their community.WATCH: Eldorado Park becomes war zone as protest turns uglyPretorius says they don't condone the looting of stores by residents. It is a criminal element that unfortunately also happens. You need to take into consideration that 71% of the people in this community are unemployed. Residents say they are tired of not being heard. They say there are many people who have been promised homes which have not been delivered.One woman says protest action is new to the area. This is the first time we see things like these happen. It s unreal. She says police have been extremely violent in the way they've treated them. Because we don t vote ANC, we are DA, even traffic cops stop us and say they will give us tickets every day because we didn t vote for the ANC. One woman says they've been raising housing concerns for years now. Ten years ago, the MEC came to Eldorado Park promising us houses. Ten years ago ... and we are still waiting for those houses. So every year, there is no budget for Eldorado park. What are we? We are people.&quot;#EldoradoPark This woman says the protests are not just about housing, she says it's also about the unemployed young people in the area. KS pic.twitter.com/V55wHwEEq5(Edited by Winnie Theletsane)