Cosatu, ANC, organised business and Corruption Watch have all joined calls slamming the decision by Eskom&#8217;s board to reinstate Brian Molefe as CEO. JOHANNESBURG - The Congress of South African Trade Unions (Cosatu), the African National Congress (ANC), organised business and Corruption Watch have all joined calls slamming the decision by Eskom s board to reinstate Brian Molefe as the company's CEO.On Friday morning, Eskom announced that it had decided to re-appoint Molefe as its CEO.Molefe resigned last year after the Public Protector's State Capture report showed that he had been in constant contact with the Gupta family during a deal involving a coal mine that supplies Eskom.The ANC's Zizi Kodwa is leading the charge of outrage. The decision is reckless and insensitive, and we condemn it. Cosatu's deputy general secretary Solly Phetoe says they cannot accept Molefe s reappointment. He must account and respond to the State Capture report as he can t go back to being the CEO. He also can t be the person who s deployed in national government on the basis of this criminal activity that he s facing. Phetoe says Molefe simply cannot go back to Eskom. When he was deployed in government, we raised this matter saying it is wrong. Corruption Watch head David Lewis says it's simply outrageous. He resigned because it was in the interest of the country and the state-owned enterprise to do so. Where is this nonsense coming from that he took early retirement after a year and he was given an early retirement package of R30 million? Earlier DA leader Mmusi Maimane says the party was consulting its lawyers as to whether there're grounds for an interdict. We re enquiring if we can get an interdict of such actions because you can t have an entity like Eskom being captured in that regard. At the same time, EFF leader Julius Malema said Molefe was not fit to lead Eskom again. We think it s unacceptable. It is turning our country into a banana republic. And so we have now asked the lawyers to look at whether we can act on an urgent basis since the man says he s coming to work on Monday. The ANC labelled Molefe s re-appointment as reckless.Meanwhile, Business Leadership SA says they're calling on the government to reverse this appointment and to replace Eskom s board.(Edited by Winnie Theletsane)