
                                            A suspect has also died after the shooting on Las Vegas strip.
                                         LAS VEGAS – At least 50 people have been killed in Las Vegas shooting, according to the sheriff. A suspect has also died after the shooting on Las Vegas strip. Las Vegas police are now searching for an Asian woman who's been linked to the deadly mass shooting at a country music festival. Earlier witnesses on social media said the shooting broke out on the last night of the three-day Route 91 Harvest festival, a sold-out event attended by thousands and featuring top acts such as Eric Church, Sam Hunt and Jason Aldean. US media, including Fox News, reported that Aldean was performing on Sunday night when the rampage began but that he had been bundled safely off stage at the event outside the Mandalay Bay Resort and Casino in the Nevada gambling mecca. The spokeswoman for the University Medical Center hospital said 14 of the wounded were in a critical condition. All appeared to have suffered gunshot wounds, she said. “Confirming that one suspect is down. This is an active investigation. Again, please do not head down to the Strip at this time,” Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department said on Twitter. It was not immediately clear whether the suspect was killed or injured. Police said on Twitter that at this time they did not believe there are any more shooters. Las Vegas is an internationally renowned major resort city, known primarily for its gambling, shopping and entertainment. Video on the festival’s website showed stage set up outside the front of the Mandalay Bay. The hotel is near McCarran International Airport, which said on Twitter it had temporarily halted flights after the shooting. Later, the airport said that some flights had resumed. One Twitter user posted that the casino hotel was on lockdown, while another, citing police scanners, said two gunmen who had shot at a bodyguard and police were on the 32nd floor, although there was no confirmation from police. Video clips posted online showed what sounded like automatic weapons as panicked concertgoers fled or dropped to the ground screaming. Witnesses heard numerous gunshots at the hotel, where police tactical teams were searching for the attacker, according to reports on CNN and in the New York Times.  Las Vegas Metropolitan Police say one suspect has been killed and they are also seeking a possible accomplice. “We have well in the excess of about 100 injured and excess of 20 plus that have died at this point. But we’re comfortable that the primary aggressor in this event has expired or passed away and is no longer a threat,” said Sheriff Joe Lombardo. A woman describes what she saw. “The shots just kept coming, so we were going down and when we got down there was a man that was shot right there, they were trying to take him out and it was all bloody and unconscious and was helping him out and everybody is hiding everywhere.” Las Vegas police are on the lookout for this womanContact @LVMPD if you see her pic.twitter.com/XIjo2o1dcx 