
                                            Pretoria Mavericks T20 cricket franchise owner Hiren Bhanu says that after the departure of Haroon Lorgat, the tournament was in disarray and backs the decision by CSA.
                                         CAPE TOWN - Pretoria Mavericks owner Hiren Bhanu says that Cricket South Africa (CSA) must take an introspective look into the organisation with the aim of not making the same mistakes. Bhanu spoke exclusively to EWN Sport a day after CSA confirmed the T20 Global League would be postponed until next year. Bhanu steered clear of blaming anyone specifically but says that costly mistakes like the postponement has reputational implications for the owners. “I wouldn’t use the word blame but I think it is definitely the responsibility of CSA and the board to look deep down and see where things went wrong and make corrections, otherwise things like this will keephappening. It basically maligns the name of CSA, it affects our reputations as owners.” Former CSA CEO Haroon Lorgat is widely regarded as spearheading the formation of the T20 Global League. However, he parted ways with CSA two weeks ago, his relationship with the board having become irreconcilable. The breakdown in the relationship is directly linked to the lack of transparency over the tournament's organisation and more specifically the non-sale of the broadcasting rights. Bhanu says that after the departure of Lorgat, the tournament was in disarray and backs the decision by CSA. “We all were aware that CSA had to up pick bits and pieces from where the ex-CEO left things. I think it was a wise decision not to rush into something because I don’t think the product we intended to deliver to the public would have been at the standard we want it to be.” Bhanu goes on to say that the sale broadcasting rights were left too late. “The broadcasting deal, that to be fair, was too last minute. Being a businessman myself, I think for any broadcaster to give enough revenue he would’ve needed time to sell ad(vertising) space for the program. "It was complicated.” CSA were bracing themselves for a net loss of over R340 million from the inaugural edition of the T20 Global League, an amount that accounts for more than half its current cash reserves if one was to look at their latest financials. The tournament will now take place in November 2018.