Cape Town’s rail commuter service is troubled, crime-ridden and appears to be fighting a losing battle. Eyewitness News delves deeper in this special report. Cape Town’s rail commuter service is troubled, crime-ridden and appears to be fighting a losing battle. Eyewitness News delves deeper in this special report.  Hundreds of thousands of working class commuters in Cape Town rely on Metrorail to get them where they need to be. Over the past few years, the trains servicing the Western Cape’s economic hub have become increasingly unreliable, and increasingly dangerous. Ticket sales have declined by 35% per month since last year. That’s 2,7 million fewer rail journeys in Cape Town per month in 2016/17 compared with 2015/16. The City of Cape Town recently revealed an ambitious plan, aimed at taking over the city’s rail infrastructure, and adding it into the council’s broader transport mix. Mayoral committee member for Transport, Brett Herron, will be tabling his proposal in a full sitting of council on Thursday. Even if the plan is accepted and acted upon, it is a long-term fix, and will do little to alleviate the plight of the average Cape Town commuter, reliant on the railway network for their livelihood. COMMUTERS SUFFER Commuters, like Samuel Vomazonke, are fed up. Vomazonke travels on what Metrorail has described as Cape Town’s most dangerous line - the lines that service Khayelitsha and Mitchells Plain. It runs all the way through to Bonteheuwel and Langa. Vomazonke says that earlier this year he witnessed an armed robbery on the train, at Netreg station. “[There were] no security guards, the guys [drew] a knife and guns… Poor service. You wake up early, go to the station early, train comes late and you get late to work.” Vomazonke is one of hundreds of thousands of people who live in the outlying areas of Cape Town. Their options in terms of public transport are limited. Many can’t afford a car, and even if they can, an increasingly heavy traffic load makes travelling an arduous and expensive exercise. Liticia Pretorius is one such commuter. She lives in Brackenfell, and says that taking her car into work is not an option: “Taking the car from Brackenfell, obviously, having to go onto the N1 during peak time. It’s not viable, you get to work too late.” Her train station is clean, and well equipped with the amenities commuters need. It has a shop, and it’s well lit, but Pretorius says security remains one of her major concerns. “This morning was a perfect example; the ticket verifiers were there. People came through, they had tickets, but coming from another station, they’re already on the train. So, you had the guy blocking the station off so you have to go through where the verifiers are. It’s two guards, and a whole lot of people so what did they do in the end? People had no tickets, they just walked past them and there’s nothing they could do.” CRIME AND VANDALISM It’s not just commuters who are easy prey for criminals. Earlier this year, a pair of security guards were robbed at knifepoint and the female guard was raped. Increasingly, commuters are afraid to take the train, and avoid taking the train after dark. Metrorail says it is doing what it can to curb incidents of crime associated with its trains and it is hoping to enlist the help of the communities it serves to make a dent in the problem. WATCH: Off the rails: EWN joins Metrorail on a trolley trip  Metrorail spends close to R100 million on maintenance or repair work every year. Vandals strip copper wire for sale to scrapyards, causing chaos on the commuter lines. Most incidents are centred on the lines that service Khayelitsha and Mitchells Plain. The rail operator has a track inspection unit, tasked with inspecting the lines, the signalling equipment, and the general security around the infrastructure. Eyewitness News spent a day with the team, led by Anthony van Rooyen, a track inspector who’s been working for Metrorail for decades. Van Rooyen told Eyewitness News that people along the line throw stones and projectiles at his trolley almost daily. “I was thrown once with a brick right through the window. Fortunately, nothing happened.” Metrorail is currently building a multi-million rand concrete wall spanning 24 kilometres around the stations on this route to protect its assets. Security guards on scramblers have been deployed to patrol the area as part of a joint initiative with the City of Cape Town. Yet still, the vandalism continues. Metrorail’s regional manager, Richard Walker, says every month as many as 70 carriages have to be rewired because of cable theft. “The moment we bring in a train into the system, it’s a matter of a weekend and we must take the train out again. And we’ve just recently, the first of August, we brought a new what we call a Geo-train – fourteen coaches – within a week it had to go back to the contractor because the cables were cut, windows were broken.” Metrorail has repeatedly said it needs help keeping the trains safe, and protecting rolling stock from vandals. It wants the SAPS and the City of Cape Town to step up and assist. Five years ago, there was a plan to do just that, including a “Memorandum of Action” signed by the City and the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa) to form a partnership to in dealing with ways to improve the commuter’s experience. But the City’s Brett Herron says that in the five years that have passed since then, there’s not been a lot of progress. He blames this largely on the instability of Prasa’s top management. The rail agency has been attempting to function without a board since all the members were axed earlier this year. Allegations of poor management and failing security measures also emerged recently after GroundUp revealed an internal letter from Prasa regional security manager Ernest Hendricks to Prasa executive member Tiro Holele. Herron believes one way to fix Metrorail’s problems in Cape Town is for the municipality to take over the management of the rail network. “If we can own the network,” he says, “we can contract with operators like Metrorail to provide a service. If Metrorail says our capacity is only to be able to provide ten trains an hour on one line and we can’t provide the others, we can find other operators to provide the service.” Herron believes this plan will provide commuters with a reliable service and decent rolling stock. Herron adds that this plan could see Metrorail, Golden Arrow, and MyCiti all operate on the same network. If the plan works, it could be a game changer for the 60% of public transport commuters who use the service, but the City’s plan could take years to get off the ground, if it’s approved at all. Transport consultant Richard Gordge says that putting control into the hands of local authorities is a great idea and that’s been successfully implemented elsewhere in the world. However, it is a long-term fix, and Metrorail needs rescuing now. “From being able to plan the rail system devolution is obviously a very good thing, because then all different modes of transport can be considered together. Funding decisions and management input is an integrated effort. But the real issue that the City and the province and business needs to be focused on is how can we avert a total collapse of the rail system itself.” Brett Herron is expected to brief the Cape Town City Council later today, on the details of the plan to reimagine rail travel in the Mother City.