
                                            For the first time in history, the equestrian sport of polo has found a home in the heart of Gauteng and Soweto is the lucky township.
                                         JOHANNESBURG – An elite sport like polo is often not for the dusty townships of Africa and is still very much a white-dominated sport. But for the first time in history, the equestrian sport has found a home in the heart of Gauteng and Soweto is the lucky township. Founded by Hloni Mathlare and South Africa's first ever black show-jumper, Enos Mafokate, the event is aimed at showing people that there’s more to Soweto. “Soweto is ready to host large-scale bespoke events and that they’re not just for affluent suburbs. We want to show people that they can come to visit Soweto and not just Vilakazi Street,” Mathlare said. Most importantly, the event is driven by putting the Soweto Equestrian Centre in Rockville on the map. The 28 acre centre is home to 15 horses and will be the host for the event which is set to take place on Saturday 28 October. Mafokate believes that the event will push his legacy further and allow South Africans to celebrate the sport. “If I can do if for the past 10 years, we can do more than that… horses are therapeutic. The best thing will be seeing polo on Soweto grounds. We want to change this area, we’re not in competition with anyone. We want to show people the beauty of this sport, help children and create jobs.” With the event being a first of its kind in an African township, the pair is pulling out all the stops to make it a success. Motlhare says: “To be honest, it’s very exciting yet nerve-wracking. I don’t get sleep anymore and at the end of the day, it’s going to be great.” And in true polo style, Motlhare says there is a theme to guide fashionistas - What Jo’burg means to me. “Since this is the first one, we wanted to fuse all the different heritages that Jo’burg is home to… it’s all about what Jo’burg means to you as an individual.” Once all the glamour and games are done and dusted with, the pair hopes that the event will continue generating support for the centre. Mafokate says: “I would like people to stick together, let the world know that this has never happened in a township. Let’s sit down and educate people who don’t know about polo. This cannot only happen in Soweto, let’s take it to other townships, that’s what I want to see.” Mafokate also founded the centre and opened the elite world of horse riding to black children, teaching them equestrian activities and inspiring them to aspire for a better life while shielding them from a world of drugs and criminal activities.