
                                            The Supreme Court reaffirmed the High Court’s ruling that the 2009 decision to withdraw the case was irrational, which opens the way for President Zuma to stand trial.
                                         JOHANNESBURG - The Presidency has responded to this morning's decision by the Supreme Court of Appeal to dismiss an appeal by the NPA and President Zuma against a High Court order which set aside the decision to withdraw charges against the president. In a statement the Presidency says that the decision, while disappointing, was much anticipated. "The Supreme Court of Appeal ruled that the then Acting National Director of Public Prosecutions (NDPP) had invoked the incorrect provisions in considering President Jacob Zuma’s representations to the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA). As such, the decision made to discontinue the prosecution against President Zuma is invalid. "The effect of the decision is that the only legitimate decision made by the NPA is to prosecute President Zuma. Importantly, it means that the representations have not been considered and the expectation is that the NDPP will now consider these representations under the correct prescripts of the law and make a legitimate decision relating thereto. "Any person has the right to make such representations and an expectation that a legitimate decision will be made. "These representations will be amplified in light of developments in the ensuing period, not least of all are the recent revelations around the integrity of the audit report which underpins the prosecution." This morning the Supreme Court reaffirmed the High Court’s ruling that the 2009 decision to withdraw the case was irrational, which opens the way for Zuma to stand trial. The court also accepted the NPA and Zuma’s concessions that former prosecutions boss Mokotedi Mpshe relied on an incorrect provision in law to make the decision. READ: The SCA's judgment on Zuma's spy tapes appeal    Zuma Spy Tapes Judgment by Primedia Broadcasting on Scribd 