
                                            Frankel has chartered three planes filled with cash, food and medical supplies to Puerto Rico to help those affected by Hurricane Maria. 
                                         LONDON - Bethenny Frankel has filled three planes of medical and food supplies to send to Puerto Rico to help those affected by Hurricane Maria, which has left the 3.5 million islanders without power. The 46-year-old reality TV star has packed the jets full of cash cards, hygiene products, and paediatric supplies for the Caribbean island, which has been rocked by the natural disaster, leaving all 3.5 million residents without power. For the return journey, she plans to fill the empty airplanes full of Puerto Rico cancer patients to bring them back to the US for treatment. In a caption attached to a number of pictures of the donations, she wrote: “Here we are at our headquarters organising and loading the truck for the planes heading to PR from Miami, Fort Lauderdale and NYC. Filling 3 planes with supplies, suitcases full of cash cards, pediatric supplies, insulin, hygiene products, medics, non-perishable food, Rescue Warrior nurses, EMTs, combat medics. We will return these planes full of PR cancer patients, diabetics and people that are dying. Please donate to bstrongdelivergood.org to help me with these efforts. Home healing & working on relief in St. Croix & PR. This is effin insane. If you only knew the half of it you would crawl under a couch.  Please thank my lifelong friend Warren @steelpartners for our FOURTH plane going to Puerto Rico. Working on filling it now.  All good. Keep going. Xo https://t.co/WgK3HuIs8S  Bethenny also posted images of the planes she has chartered being readied for their journeys today (02.10.17). She wrote: “Paying my own way for Puerto Rico. Filling this B up w supplies. #BStrong #thisisacrisis #100percent #workingforpuertorico Donate at http://www.bstrongdeliveringgood.org/bstrong/ @michaelcapponi @nicoledustin #alwayswithbdb #globalempowermentmission (sic)” She captioned another image: “We call this PR911 (plane 2). Loading this B up for Puerto Rico @steelpartners #workingforpuertorico #Bstrong #guardiansofrescue #thisisacrisis #globalempowermentmission #100percent (sic)” Pitbull recently lent his private jet to cancer patients in hurricane-ravaged Puerto Rico. He said: “Thank God we’re blessed to help. Just doing my part.” Last week, Beyonce announced she would donate the proceeds from her new song, a remix of J Balvin and Willy William’s hit ‘Mi Gente’ - to those affected by a spate of recent natural disasters in the Caribbean, Mexico and the US. She wrote: “I am donating my proceeds from this song to hurricane relief charities for Puerto Rico, Mexico and the other affected Caribbean islands. To help go to Beyonce.com/reliefefforts. (sic)” What’s more, a ‘Country Rising’ benefit concert will take place next month in Nashville, Tennessee, to raise money for those affected by recent natural disasters.