
                                            The 22-year-old is accused of the murders and the attempted murder of his younger sister in their Stellenbosch home in January 2015.
                                         CAPE TOWN - Family axe murder accused Henri van Breda says he tried fighting off an attacker he alleges murdered his parents and older brother. The 22-year-old is accused of the murders and the attempted murder of his younger sister in their Stellenbosch home in January 2015. He claims a masked man committed the crime, with another intruder also in the house at the time. WATCH: Henri van Breda's testimony courtesy of News24.  Van Breda has testified the intruder went after his mother and sister, after hacking to death his brother and father. He says at this point he moved to the room where he found his father and brother’s bloodied bodies. Van Breda has described his scuffle with the attacker, who he says laughed as he approached. He says he managed to grab the axe and a knife from the balaclava-clad intruder. The accused has also described, in great detail, how his wounds were inflicted. These injuries have been described as self-inflicted by State expert witnesses. Van Breda claims the attacker then fled the room and ran downstairs. He says he chased after the man and threw the axe at him but he’s unsure of where it landed. ‘POLICE STATEMENT INCORRECT’ Van Breda has told the Western Cape High court the police statement he signed was incorrect. When he was questioned by police officers on 27 January 2015, he hadn’t slept for more than 24 hours. Van Breda says at that point he hadn’t eaten anything since the night before. Van Breda claims the statement written by one of the officers is incorrect as it mentions only one attacker when he specifically told the officer it was more than one. He claims he also didn’t mention exact times but that the officer taking the statement added those. Van Breda says if he’d known the statement was a legal document, he wouldn’t have signed it. When he asked the officer whether he needs a lawyer, the colonel apparently said: “Why? Are you then guilty?” (Edited by Zamangwane Shange)