
                                            Former Finance Minister Trevor Manuel says those people involved in state capture should face consequences, including jail time, for their actions.
                                         Editor's note: An earlier version of this story incorrectly stated that Trevor Manuel had said those behind the KPMG controversy should go to jail. In reply to a comment on public and private representatives facing consequences, including going to jail, Manuel agreed, saying, "People should go to jail". However, this wasn't only and specifically in relation to KPMG. We regret the error and apologise unreservedly. JOHANNESBURG - Former Finance Minister Trevor Manuel says those people involved in state capture should face consequences, including jail time, for their actions. Government, several parastatals and a number of private businesses - both large and small - have been linked to the looting of state resources. Evidence, official reports and witness accounts point to the Gupta family, close friends of President Jacob Zuma, as the masterminds of the multi-billion rand pillaging. Auditing firm KPMG is one of the latest firms to be caught up in the web. It has lost several clients after it withdrew the findings and recommendations of an internal investigation into an intelligence unit at the South African Revenue Service (Sars), showing serious failures in the work it did for Gupta-linked companies and the revenue service.  Manuel says KPMG should produce documents to show how it arrived at the controversial findings. Speaking to Talk Radio 702, he says the auditing firm now has the task of ensuring its integrity doesn’t come into question even after the management has left. “People should go to jail because of how they have been covered and how this rot was allowed to continue in the way that it has. The consequences are a break on growth in this country, if we were growing fast we wouldn’t have energy. If the economy is not growing people can’t get jobs.” In response to a comment by host Karima Brown about consequences for "elected representatives and private companies", Manuel agreed that those responsible should go to jail. Brown: There has to be consequences for elected representatives and private companies such as KPMG and McKinsey. People should go to jail Manuel: People should go jail. I have no doubt about it. But if I look at Eskom and the malfeasance and maladministration that has been there for so long, people have been covered, and how the rot was allowed to continue in the way that it has. The consequences are a brake on the growth in this country because if we were growing faster we wouldn’t have energy, and if the economy is not growing, people can’t get jobsAnd the other side is that energy costs are rising. Those are the consequences that the population is paying for poor governance in a company that is as central as Eskom. And for those involved in that poor governance, there haven’t been any consequences. LISTEN: Former Finance minister Trevor Manuel speaks to Radio 702's Karima Brown about state capture.  MAJOR SHAPE-UPS In September, the auditing form announced a major shake-up to its leadership in South Africa after withdrawing findings and recommendations around its report into the so-called Sars “spy Unit”. The report was partly responsible for the downfall of former Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan who was accused of having known about and endorsed the unit. CEO Trevor Hoole was among eight senior staff who resigned, while another faces disciplinary action and dismissal. KPMG admitted that its report for Sars suggests Gordhan knew about the establishment of an intelligence unit that was set up illegally. However, the auditing firm said this was not the intended interpretation and evidence provided to KPMG does not support this interpretation, saying it recognises and regrets the impact this has had. Meanwhile, Sars boss Tom Moyane formally notified Parliament of his “dissatisfaction” with KPMG’s handling of the controversy surrounding an intelligence unit at the revenue service. KPMG International recently repudiated the findings of a 2015 report compiled by its South African division on what was perceived to be a covert “rogue unit” operating within Sars. In September, the auditing firm told Moyane that he could no longer rely on the report's findings because standard quality controls were not applied. But Moyane insists the report is not flawed. ‘SCRUTINISE SARS’ HANDLING OF THIS DEBACLE’ The Democratic Alliance (DA) called on Parliament’s Standing Committee on Finance to schedule hearings so that Members of Parliament (MPs) can scrutinise South African Revenue Services' handling of the so-called "rogue unit" controversy. But the committee's chairperson, Yunus Carrim, said they don't have the technical capacity nor the mandate to launch a full-scale inquiry. Carrim said the issue fell within the scope of Parliament's intelligence committee. Carrim added any investigation involving KPMG should be handled by the regulatory body. The IRBA will appear before the committee on Tuesday to give feedback on some of its ongoing investigations. Additional reporting by Gia Nicolaides & Rahima Essop. (Edited by Zamangwane Shange)