
                                            Police Minister Fikile Mbalula claims his family used what he calls family financial resources to pay for the trip but details about those resources are confidential and protected.
                                         PRETORIA – Police Minister Fikile Mbalula has defended his Dubai holiday saying the trip was not sponsored but rather paid for by his family. The minister was responding to an Eyewitness News report on Monday which revealed that a Sascoc supplier allegedly paid at least half of the R680,000 expense. The company Sedgars Sport has denied paying for the trip. Eyewitness News has been asking Mbalula about his holiday since July but on Tuesday he issued a statement saying he now wishes to take the public into his confidence to clarify a few matters. Mbalula claims his family used what he calls family financial resources to pay for the trip but details about those resources are confidential and protected. The minister says no conflict of interest arose out of his travel abroad. Despite the minister’s claims, two independent sources confirmed to EWN that the holiday was paid for by a Sascoc supplier. ETHICS CODE Mbalula says that his Dubai holiday has not breached Parliament’s ethics codes because it was paid for by his family. The minister has accused the media of trampling on his rights. Mbalula believes the report is part of a plan to attack his integrity and cause harm to his family. He adds that the holiday was not a sponsorship, and therefore there was no conflict of interest arising out of the trip abroad. But EWN has seen evidence that the holiday was hastily booked on the 23 December, just four days before his departure date. #MbalulaDubai full statement statement. BB pic.twitter.com/AmlI1RHvVm  PROOF EWN has seen records which show a company called Reimon Uniforms - which linked to Sedgars Sport - paid R300,000 to a travel agent to pay for Mbalula's Dubai trip. It's understood the remainder of the R680,000 expense was paid for in cash by a Sedgars employee. Sedgars' director Yusuf Dockrat denied paying for the holiday and refused to answer further questions when evidence showing a link to Sedgars was put to him. Two independent sources have confirmed that banking records show Reimon Uniforms paid a travel agent for the holiday. Company records show several links between Reimon and Sedgars. DA DEMANDS INVESTIGATION Meanwhile, the Democratic Alliance (DA) is demanding an investigation into the minister’s family holiday to Dubai. DA chief whip John Steenhuisen says it’s concerning. “It’s concerning because the money was paid. There’s very likely a conflict of interest with the Minister of Sport receiving a gift of this nature from a company that was doing business with Sascoc, which is accountable to the minister.” (Edited by Leeto M Khoza)