
                                            The Danish midfielder fell to the ground clutching his leg and was carried off on a stretcher on the hour-mark at the Liberty Stadium.
                                         BENGALURU - Huddersfield Town’s Philip Billing faces the prospect of surgery and up to 12 weeks out and after twisting his right ankle in the team’s 2-0 loss at Swansea City last Saturday. The Danish midfielder, who has made seven league appearances for the club this season, fell to the ground clutching his leg and was carried off on a stretcher on the hour-mark at the Liberty Stadium. Huddersfield manager David Wagner said a scan on Monday would reveal the full extent of the 21-year-old’s injury. “Philip Billing has a serious injury. We aren’t 100% sure if he needs surgery or not. The final investigations will be on Monday,” Wagner told a news conference on Friday ahead of Huddersfield’s clash with Manchester United. Meanwhile, Benin forward Steve Mounie, who helped the team make a strong start to the season, could return to the starting line-up on Saturday after missing five games in all competitions with a heel injury. “Mounie will be back in the squad. He trained all week without any issues,” Wagner said of the club’s record signing, who has scored twice in the league so far. Mounie’s attack partner Collin Quaner (calf strain) will miss the United game but could return for next week’s trip to Liverpool while midfielder Kasey Palmer (hamstring) is expected back after next month’s international break. Huddersfield, who are 12th in the table with nine points, face a tough test against second-placed United and Wagner urged the John Smith’s Stadium crowd to rally behind the team as much as possible. “We are against one of the biggest clubs in the world and we will create one of the best football atmospheres... If we want to be a competitor then we need a great backing from the stands. All four stands really support us and lift the game. “We will try our best and will try to make this game a real challenge for Manchester United. We have to be on our very best to get a result.”