
                                            The provincial leadership held a briefing in Durban where they gave their version of what happened in a meeting with the ANC's top six on Sunday 

                                         DURBAN - The African National Congress (ANC) in KwaZulu-Natal says the national executive committee has given its blessing to appeal the Pietermaritzburg High Court judgment which declared the 2015 elective conference unlawful. The provincial leadership held a briefing in Durban on Tuesday where they gave their version of what happened in a meeting with the ANC's top six led by President Jacob Zuma on Sunday. However, the so-called "rebels" who took the provincial leadership to court say they will block the process to appeal the ruling. The KZN ANC insists the decision to appeal the ruling is not a continuation of tensions between the two factions. Spokesperson Mdumiseni Ntuli says the judgment has the potential to weaken the authority of both the provincial and national executives. “This must be understood as an effort to avoid and avert a possibility of a judgment that would stay and affect the party in the future.” Provincial secretary Super Zuma said: “It can set a very wrong precedent, not only for KZN [but also] on the interpretation of the ANC constitution.” The KZN ANC would not be drawn on what solutions they proposed during the meeting, saying its role was to stand by the decisions taken by the organisation.   The ANC in KZN says there was no discussion during its meeting with the party's top six about re-running the elective conference. Zuma says there was no need to discuss the re-run of the elective conference because they have not been disbanded. “You can only discuss the issue of the re-run if there is no PEC. The PEC welcomes and respects the decision of the national executive committee to continue recognising the existence of the KZN ANC executive committee.” He says they have also committed to an ongoing process of engagement to find a sustainable political solution to the problems facing the province. Meanwhile, the so-called ANC rebels say the only right decision to be made by the party’s top officials is to disband the current KZN leadership and appoint a provincial task team.