
                                            Oregan Hoskins was at the helm of the rugby union for just a year when Jake White and John Smit lead South Africa to their second world title.
                                         JOHANNESBURG - Former SA Rugby president Oregan Hoskins believes that the current crop of Springbok players have what it takes to emulate the feat achieved by the class of 2007 and win the next Rugby World Cup. Hoskins was at the helm of the rugby union for just a year when Jake White and John Smit lead South Africa to their second world title and he has told EWN Sport that the quality in the 2017 team is of such high quality that another victory should be on the cards. “We’ve got the best rugby players in the world. I’ve spent more than a decade in administration and I’ve been to the best rugby countries in the world. We’ve just got to believe in ourselves and do the right thing.” The Boks, thanks to the boot of Percy Montgomery, beat England 15-6 in the final in Paris, while Bryan Habana finished as the top try scorer with eight tries in the competition. Hoskins relinquished the presidency last year, with Mark Alexander taking over from him and he believes that his predecessor Brian van Rooyen deserves some credit for the role he played in the country’s success that year. “I think it’s important for us not to forget the role that my predecessor played, Brian van Rooyen, regardless of what has been said of him later on. Brian also focused a lot of his energy on Jake White and on John Smit and the team.” The former rugby chief says that another one of his fondest memories of that famous night is the presence of former president Thabo Mbeki and the current president, Jacob Zuma. “It was so good to have both politicians there and it just shows what our country can do when we unite around a common goal, regardless of the diversity of feelings and opinions and standpoints. All week you can visit www.ewn.co.za to read and hear from players and staff involved and also share your special memories of the Rugby World Cup with us via Facebook, Twitter and Instagram as we look back at the famous 2007 win.