
                                            The city has warned the passenger rail service in Cape Town is on the brink of collapse.
                                         CAPE TOWN - The City of Cape Town wants to take over the running of the city's commuter train services.  On Tuesday, the municipality announced that it will ask the national Transport Department to speed up the assignment of rail commuter services to city bosses as it fears the service will collapse. The city explains that passenger rail numbers in Cape Town have fallen by 30%. This translates to almost three million fewer rail journeys in the city per month in the 2016/17 financial year compared to the previous financial year. The city wants the transport department to expedite its national rail policy, which could take up to three years to finalise. Commuters have been and are still fleeing from passenger rail as they cannot rely on the trains to travel to and from work, according to the city. It says factors such as commuters’ personal safety and punctuality has been compromised. The city says that at least one out of every 10 trains (11%) is cancelled on a daily basis. By April 2017, Metrorail was short of 20 train sets, the service was operating on 68 sets as opposed to the 88 train sets required to run an efficient service. Metrorail’s data confirms that thousands of commuters have been displaced to road-based transport - be it private vehicles, minibus-taxis or buses - over the past two years. The city says this could impact the economy, saying that a complete breakdown would be catastrophic for the city, for residents, and commuters who are already subjected to constant peak-hour grid-lock on the congested road network.  Authorities believe it comes at a great cost in terms of the time spent on travelling, household expenditure on transport, environmental degradation due to carbon emissions, and the subsequent impact on the city’s productivity and economy. The City says Cape Town cannot survive without a fully functional, effective and world-class passenger rail service.  It believes the Mother City’s economic growth could be severely hampered without a fully functional rail service. (Edited by Shimoney Regter)