
                                            ANC in Gauteng says former health MEC Qedani Mahlangu has indicated that she doesn’t have a problem testifying.
                                         JOHANNESBURG - The African National Congress (ANC) in Gauteng says it’s been in discussion with former Health MEC Qedani Mahlangu about her appearing before the Life Esidimeni hearings. It says Mahlangu has indicated that she doesn’t have a problem testifying but she’s pointed out her name does not appear on the list of witnesses. ANC spokesperson Motalatale Modiba said: “She's taken the initiative to also be in touch with the office of the former deputy chief justice to ensure that she’s also given a chance to tell her side of the story.” Modiba says Mahlangu did request leave of absence from her provincial executive committee responsibilities to travel overseas for the purposes of pursuing her post-graduate studies. He says suggestions that she went AWOL are wrong. “She’s indicated that she doesn’t have any problem with appearing at the hearing and she’s since made contact with the office of the arbitrator.” Mahlangu is a key witness in the arbitration process, given that she signed off on the decision to move mentally ill patients to illegal NGOs which ultimately lead to 141 deaths. 'MAHLANGU MUST TESTIFY' Meanwhile, a civil rights group called “Act-Up London” has handed over a memorandum to the London School of Economics where the former health MEC is believed to be studying. The group of about 12 says they're demanding that Mahlangu take the first flight home to South Africa to testify at the Life Esidimeni hearings. Member of the civil rights group Dermud Macdonald says they are outraged that she’s studying in London while families continue to relate horror stories of how their loved ones died in the tragedy. “We demand that she does the right thing and also demand that she takes responsibility. There are very grave accusations levelled against her. They should encourage and ensure that she does the right thing and gets on the first plane to South Africa.” (Edited by Zamangwane Shange)