
                                            Gwede Mantashe has warned against taking emotional decisions and pushing President Zuma out of office now.
                                         JOHANNESBURG - As some African National Congress (ANC) veterans call on President Jacob Zuma  to step down following the Supreme Court of Appeal’s ruling in the so-called Spy Tapes case, Secretary General Gwede Mantashe says he hopes the party's national conference in December will help the ANC deal with the issue. Mantashe was speaking at the second national congress of the party's veterans league on Friday night. The Supreme Court of Appeal has confirmed that the decision to withdraw the 18 charges relating to 783 suspicious transactions against the President was irrational. Mantashe has warned against taking emotional decisions and pushing President Zuma out of office now, saying such a decision would give instant satisfaction with a long-term regret. “Can the December conference help us turn the corner and come out of it a better ANC, sending a positive message to society?” But the party's veteran Siphiwe Nyanda says he doesn't understand how Zuma can continue as president. “When such serious charges are brought against somebody, it’s incumbent to them to check themselves and to do everything that is in the best interest of the movement.” READ: The SCA's judgment on Zuma's spy tapes appeal    Zuma Spy Tapes Judgment by Primedia Broadcasting on Scribd  Nyanda is leading a group of the party's disgruntled former soldiers under the banner of the MK Council. The MK council has previously called on President Jacob Zuma to step down. He said: "The ANC would really have to sit and think about how they proceed with a president who is facing so many charges, so many serious charges.” He says as veterans they hope the National Prosecuting Authority head Shaun Abrahams will exercise independence and do the right thing, which means taking a decision according to his conscience. Mantashe says the ANC will wait for the National Prosecuting Authority to take a decision on the corruption charges before the party decides on how to deal with the President. WATCH: 'Abrahams must commit to reinstating all ZUMA Charges'  Meanwhile, the Congress of the People (Cope) has called on the NPA to reinstate charges against Zuma with immediate effect. The party says the NPA must uphold the values of the Constitution and the principles of its legislation. It says the court has provided legal clarity on the spurious dropping of charges. Cope’s Pakes Dikgetsi says the party will be closely monitoring the conduct of the NPA to ensure that it executes its mandate without fear or favour. “We’ve always held a view that there’s a prima facie case of corruption against President Zuma and he should have his day in court. It is our view that the NPA must reinstate the charges against him.” (Edited by Winnie Theletsane)