
                                            A lone gunman opened fire on thousands of people attending a country concert on Sunday night killing at least 59. 
                                         NEW YORK – A number of vigils are expected to be held in Las Vegas on Tuesday after a shooting that left 59 people dead. A lone gunman opened fire on thousands of people attending a country concert on Sunday night killing at least 59. More than 500 others were injured. Authorities are still investigating why 64-year-old Stephen Paddock carried out the murders. Sherriff Joseph Lombardo said: “Beside the vigil at the City hall, there’s an additional vigil at 5 pm at Garden Angel Cathedral and that’s next to the hotel.” The gunman’s father had once been on the FBI’s most wanted list, but Paddock was a retired accountant with no known criminal record. Authorities say despite a claim that Isis was responsible for the attack, they’ve determined Paddock had no connection with the international terrorist group. Twenty-three guns were found in his hotel room and an additional 19 at his home, 120 kilometres outside the Las Vegas strip. Additional ammunition indicates the shooting could’ve been worse had the police not intervened when they did. GUN CONTROL There’s been rallying call across the US for less “thoughts and prayers” and more action on the issue of gun control, following the deadliest shooting that the country has seen in modern history. Flags have been lowered and condolences tweeted. The Empire State Building and World Trade Center went dark in honour of the victims. But for many, these are shallow gestures. The shooting in Las Vegas has prompted fresh calls from Democrats to pass stricter gun laws, but the Republican majority has made it clear that cracking down on gun rights is not on the agenda. Democrats want to see background checks expanded but most Republicans argue tougher gun laws are not the answer. Meanwhile, the country continues to mourn another 59 lives lost to a mass shooting. ‘JUST KEPT GOING ON’ Video taken of the attack showed panicked crowds fleeing as sustained rapid gunfire ripped through the area. Las Vegas’s casinos, nightclubs and shopping draw some 3.5 million visitors from around the world each year and the area was packed with visitors when the shooting broke out shortly after 10pm local time (04.00 GMT). Many casinos in the area locked their doors during the incident to keep out any potential attackers, some using handcuffs to do so, according to witnesses. The shooting broke out on the final night of the three-day Route 91 Harvest festival, a sold-out event attended by thousands and featuring top acts such as Eric Church, Sam Hunt and Jason Aldean. The rampage was reminiscent of a mass shooting at a Paris rock concert in November 2015 that killed 89 people, part of a wave of coordinated attacks by Islamist militants that left 130 dead.