
                                            The 'City Press' is reporting that Ramaphosa is also likely to be removed from his position and replaced by Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma in the next few weeks. 
                                         JOHANNESBURG – Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa is reportedly facing looming charges of treason as faction battles within the African National Congress (ANC) continue.  The City Press is reporting that Ramaphosa is also likely to be removed from his position and replaced by Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma in the next few weeks.  It’s believed Dlamini-Zuma is being deployed to the position in order to launch the commission of inquiry into state capture. But the Presidency has denied the reports, saying President Jacob Zuma will himself establish the commission despite being implicated in the report.  The office has also denied the president plans to remove Ramaphosa. On Friday, President Zuma’s spokesperson said there was no basis for reports that the country’s leader would axe his deputy, speculation about which has weighed on the currency and bonds. “It’s rumours and gossip and we don’t comment on them at all,” Zuma’s spokesperson Bongani Ngqulunga told Reuters. Answering questions in Parliament on Thursday about whether he might be sacked, Ramaphosa, a front-runner in December’s African National Congress leadership contest, said he could not speculate on rumours. On Thursday, the Deputy President said he would serve the country and its people even if Zuma fired him. “And if the decision is to remove me, I will accept that as a decision that will have been taken by the president.” Ramaphosa did not directly address reports that Zuma intends firing him on the basis of a dodgy intelligence report, insisting he serves at the pleasure of the president. “I will continue serving the people of South Africa in one form, shape or another.” Ramaphosa’s campaigning to become president of the ANC when it elects a new leadership in December, running a close-fold contest against Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma. (Edited by Leeto M Khoza)