
                                            This is the deadliest attack in the country since an Islamist insurgency began in 2007.
                                         MOGADISHU – The number killed in twin bombings in the Somali capital Mogadishu over the weekend has risen to more than 300, the head of the city’s ambulance service said on Monday. “We have confirmed 300 people died in the blast. The death toll will still be higher because some people are still missing,” Abdikadir Abdirahman, the director of Amin ambulances, told Reuters on Monday. Aden Nur, a doctor at the city’s Madina hospital, said it had recorded 258 deaths while Ahmed Ali, a nurse at the nearby Osman Fiqi hospital, told Reuters five bodies had been sent there. President Mohamed Abdullahi Farmaajo declared three days of national mourning and called for donations of blood and funds to victims of Saturday’s attack. “Today’s horrific attack proves our enemy would stop nothing to cause our people pain and suffering. Let’s unite against terror,” he tweeted. Police said a truck bomb exploded outside a hotel in the K5 intersection that is lined with government offices, restaurants and kiosks, flattening several buildings and setting dozens of vehicles on fire. Two hours later, another blast struck the capital’s Medina district. A spokesperson for Aamin Ambulance service said it knew of more than 250 people wounded during the bombings on Saturday. “Some people who searched for their relatives just found unrecognisable body parts,” its director Abdikadir Abdirahman told Reuters. “In our 10-year experience as the first responder in #Mogadishu, we haven’t seen anything like this,” tweeted the ambulance service, which is reliant on private donations and the only free ambulance service in the city. “We’re mourning the loss of 5 Somali Red Crescent volunteers, also killed in this attack,” tweeted the International Committee of the Red Cross. Police and emergency workers searched the rubble of destroyed buildings on Sunday. They had recovered dozens of corpses the night before, most of which were charred beyond recognition. Hundreds of people came to the junction in search of missing family members and police cordoned off the area for security reasons. There was no immediate claim of responsibility, although the Islamist militant group al-Shabaab, which is allied to al-Qaeda, stages regular attacks in the capital and other parts of the country. The group is waging an insurgency against the UN-backed government and its African Union allies in a bid to topple the weak administration and impose its own strict interpretation of Islam. The militants were driven out of Mogadishu in 2011 and have been steadily losing territory since then to the combined forces of African Union peacekeepers and Somali security forces. But al-Shabaab retains the ability to mount large, complex bomb attacks. Over the past three years, the number of civilians killed by insurgent bombings has steadily climbed as al-Shabaab increases the size of its bombs. 
                                                                  SA GOVERNMENT CONDEMNS ATTACK The South African government’s condemned the terrorist bombing in Somalia that’s left more than 260 people dead and hundreds injured. Particularly worrying for authorities is the fact that the truck passed through several checkpoints before reaching the place of detonation. South Africa has joined those countries promising to work with the United Nations and the African Union to explore long-term solutions to fighting terrorism. The Somali government has declared three days of mourning for the victims of one of the worst terrorist attacks on earth in recent years. (Edited by Leeto M Khoza)