
                                            The DA's Hanniff Hoosen says the committee has been waiting a month to see documents in support of the Gupta naturalisation decision.
                                         CAPE TOWN – Parliament’s Home Affairs Committee is still waiting for the department to provide it with documents that will back up a decision by former Minister Malusi Gigaba to award citizenship to the Gupta family. The Democratic Alliance (DA) says Gigaba should explain his decision to them in person, but African National Congress (ANC) Members of Parliament (MPs) have blocked the call. The committee also wants Home Affairs Minister Hlengiwe Mkhize to clarify her reasons for suspending her Director General, Mkuseli Apleni. The DA says committee chairman Lemias Mashile is protecting Gigaba. The party’s Hanniff Hoosen says the committee has been waiting a month to see documents in support of the Gupta naturalisation decision. “What else do you expect me to believe when I accuse you of deliberately trying to delay this matter, in the hope that people will forget about it?” Mashile says Gigaba will be called if necessary after the documents have been received and perused. “When we look at that information when it leads to certain actions that we need to take, we are going to take them.” But Hoosen insists Gigaba must explain in person. “There’s no genuine intention from your side chair to bring Minister Gigaba here so we can conduct the oversight that we are supposed to. You are preventing that from happening.” Mashile hit back. “You still expect me to proceed with the motion that was put by yourself in the committee and was defeated.” More than a month after the committee requested the supporting documents for the decision and it’s still waiting. The Home Affairs committee is one of four parliamentary committees tasked with probing state capture allegations, but it is yet to decide what form this will take. Mashile says he expects Mkhize to appear before the committee next week, to explain the suspension of Apleni. (Edited by Leeto M Khoza)