
                                            Thabiso Zulu has spent the day giving testimony at the Moerane Commission of Inquiry, which is investigating political killings in KwaZulu Natal (KZN).
                                         DURBAN - A close friend to Sindiso Magaqa says senior African National Congress (ANC) leaders are to blame for the current state of the party where members kill each other for positions. Thabiso Zulu  has spent the day giving testimony at the Moerane Commission of Inquiry, which is investigating political killings in KwaZulu Natal (KZN). Zulu says ever since he spoke out against corruption at Magaqa’s memorial, he still hasn’t been provided with security and there could be a threat to his life. “These days to fight against corruption is equal to applying for a one-way ticket to hell or to heaven.” An emotional Zulu spoke about his comrade and friend Magaqa, saying the only reason why he is not alive today is that he dared to speak out against corruption. “Comrade Magaqa is dead now. Comrade will be forgotten now. Magaqa’s children will starve now because that is how my organisation does things.” Zulu says the ANC has done nothing to protect those who speak out. “If we die we are going to be given a funeral rally where factionalists will come and campaign.” Zulu has been relentless in his criticism of the current state of the ANC and corruption in the uMzimkhulu Municipality. He also claims KZN politicians hire hitmen as bodyguards, saying the video of two eThekwini protectors carrying alleged AK47's has vindicated his longstanding view. Zulu says during Zweli Mkhize and Senzo Mchunu’s terms as KZN ANC chairs members had space to air their views but now this is done through the barrel of a gun. “I thought that I was not going to say this but let me say it anyway. I may not be provided with security by the way if I say this. Even if they were planning to assess me and give me security they may take it away. But let me say it anyway: the senior leadership of the ANC, currently, they are the ones who have caused most of the challenges that we have.”   