
                                            He had served nine years of a maximum 33-year sentence for armed robbery and kidnapping.
                                         NEW YORK – OJ Simpson has returned to the city where he was arrested for armed robbery a decade ago.  Simpson, who was acquitted of murdering his ex-wife and her friend in 1995 in one of the most high-profile criminal trials in history, was released from prison on Sunday morning. He had served nine years of a maximum 33-year sentence for armed robbery and kidnapping. Simpson was released with little fanfare and under the cloak of early morning darkness to avoid the kind of intense media scrutiny that's followed him during his life.  Two of Simpson’s children live in Florida, where he’ll carry out the paroled supervision he'll be under for the next five years, according to his lawyer. But Florida’s attorney general has said she doesn't want her state to become a quote country club for this convicted criminal.  His lawyer says for now he'll live in a gated residence at an undisclosed location of a Las Vegas suburb, where he'll have to meet conditions set by the Nevada parole board. Simpson is a native of California, born in San Francisco, and played his final years as a pro football player for that city’s team, the 49ers. He lived in Los Angeles at the time of the murders. But California corrections officials say he has not filed papers to live in that state either. At his parole hearing, Simpson, known during his football career as the “Juice”, said he was ready to spend time with his children and friends outside prison and could handle the public attention he would get. Among reasons the commissioners gave for their decision was that Simpson had complied with prison rules during his incarceration, had no prior criminal convictions and posed a minimal safety risk to the public. Simpson won the Heisman Trophy, the award for the top college football player, in 1968 while attending the University of Southern California. He played more than a decade in the National Football League, becoming the first player to rush for more than 2,000 yards in a season. Additional reporting by Reuters. (Edited by Shimoney Regter)