
                                            Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa faced tough questions from MPs over SAA.
                                         JOHANNESBURG - Deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa has defended government's dipping into the national revenue fund to bail out South African Airways (SAA). He says that it is necessary to fend off a catastrophic impact on the country. So far, SAA received more than R5 billion to pay off loans due and working capital to keep it going this year. With a new board set to take over early next month and board chairperson Dudu Myeni finally jettisoned, SAA needs a further R4,8 billion to keep it going until the financial year-end. DA leader Mmusi Maimane has suggested that SAA sell off strategic routes or SAA itself. “Why are we subsiding rich people to fly at the expense of poor people? So, is your view to support the bail out or poor people?” Ramaphosa told the DA leader that the national carrier "was a state resource" and that the government was committed to addressing the challenges it faces, including changing the board and devising a clear strategy for it. The EFF’s Floyd Shivambu questioned the legality of drawing the billions needed from the national revenue fund which the law (Public Finance Management Act) allows for only in emergencies. “You just go and withdraw money and you say it’s an emergency when we’ve been telling you it’s a crisis. Dudu Myeni can never get SAA right.” Ramaphosa defended the move: “Quite a lot of juggling had to be done and there was nothing that was illegal, in my view. It was all done very openly, because we were trying to avoid something that could have had even a bigger, a much bigger catastrophic impact on the country as a whole.” Ramaphosa says Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba’s maiden mid-term budget policy statement next week will deal with SAA and its funding issues. He adds that MPs should grasp the opportunity to interrogate it. Gigaba is also expected to spell out the conditions attached to the SAA bail out. (Edited by Shimoney Regter)