
                                            Ousted chair Phumulo Masualle’s faction has now approached the East London High Court in a bid to nullify the results.
                                         JOHANNESBURG – Newly elected Eastern Cape African National Congress (ANC) chair Oscar Mabuyane says clashes which resulted in several people injured and a subsequent court challenge of his leadership are regrettable and has asked for tolerance. The conference at the weekend degenerated into chaos with full-on brawls that police had to break up using stun grenades at times. Delegates bickered over non-members who had tried to participate in proceedings while other legitimate members had been barred from the conference. Mabuyane says the violence was a desperate attempt to collapse the event. “So it’s important that we keep the principle intact, we respect how the ANC is an organisation so that we don’t create chaos because of all the havoc that’s currently unfolding.” Ousted chair Phumulo Masualle’s faction has now approached the East London High Court in a bid to nullify the results. Judgment is expected on Monday morning. Political analyst Ralph Mathekga says events of the past weekend are not surprising. “This is an escalation, but it’s very consistent with what has been happening. Some might have already been planning a scenario where they might want to interdict the conference in December or even interdict the results. Dispute the results if you like.” Mabuyane has called for respect tolerance and discipline in the party. “Anarchists are everywhere, even in the ANC there are anarchists who don’t believe that if the ANC is normal and stable and follows its Constitution things will be right because they thrive when there’s chaos.  “Factions want that environment, [they want to] destabilise the ANC so that everyone doesn’t trust anyone.” REGISTRATION CHAOS Registration issues, claims of non-members participating and a chaotic brawl played out at the ANC’s elective conference in East London this weekend. Despite this, the new PEC was appointed with Mabuyane as the chairperson. However, it's understood not all members were happy that voting continued amid the drama. Rumours of a court case to nullify the conference and its outcome started doing the rounds yesterday afternoon. Former PEC member Andile Lungisa told media houses the urgent application was not going ahead, saying they will address their concerns internally. However, newly elected head, Mabuyane has since given an interview confirming the court action, saying it is driven by Attorney Mvuzo Notyesi and judgement will be handed down later this morning. (Edited by Leeto M Khoza)