
                                            Singh, Prish Govender, Charles Kalima and Edwin Mabelane have been identified as key players in the Trillian scandal according to the utility’s own report. 
                                         JOHANNESBURG – Eskom says four senior executives will have to explain themselves during disciplinary procedures about their dealings with the Gupta-linked company Trillian which was paid almost R500 million for little or no work done. The power utility confirmed on Monday that three more executives are facing suspension in addition to CFO Anoj Singh. An internal report has detailed how they ignored advice about entering into the controversial McKinsey & Company contract and went out of their way to pay Trillian in the past two years. Singh, Prish Govender, Charles Kalima and Edwin Mabelane have been identified as key players in the Trillian scandal according to the utility’s own report. It’s taken Eskom several days to confirm information that had already been stated by its acting chair Zethembe Khoza about their suspensions. While Singh has already been suspended, the three others were issued with suspension notices on Monday. Eskom’s Khulu Phasiwe said: “There’s intention to take disciplinary measures against them but it doesn’t mean that they’re guilty at this stage. It just that they need to explain themselves.” Two others, Dave Gorrie and Maya Bhana-Naidoo have also been identified in Eskom’s internal report but it appears that they may have been let off the hook. SIU PROBE The Special Investigating Unit (SIU) has confirmed that it's already completed an initial probe to assess the scope of its investigation into alleged maladministration and malpractice at Eskom. In order for the SIU to start a probe, it's required to obtain a proclamation from the president authorising the unit to go ahead with the full probe. At this point, the SIU’s Azreen Pandor said they have met with the Public Enterprises Department and now have all the documentation. “To assess the documentation that will assist in drafting the motivation for the proclamation. This has already been done and the motivation for the proclamation has been submitted to the Department of justice and thereafter it will be forwarded to the Presidency.” At the same time, Minister Lynne Brown is still due to comment on the details of Eskom’s internal report about its dealings with Trillian. Singh and at least three others have been seriously implicated by ignoring advice four times about entering into the controversial contract with McKinsey and paying Trillian directly. (Edited by Leeto M Khoza)