
                                            President Jacob Zuma approached the High Court to set aside the remedial action which compelled him to appoint the commission led by a judge selected by the chief justice. 
                                         JOHANNESBURG - The Democratic Alliance (DA) has argued that President Jacob Zuma’s decision to abandon a key aspect of his state capture review application reveals that the only reason he brought the application is to ensure he gets to hand-select the presiding judge in an inquiry and determine the terms of reference. Zuma approached the High Court this week to set aside the remedial action which compelled him to appoint the commission led by a judge selected by the chief justice. At the close of proceedings on Wednesday, the president’s counsel told the court they were abandoning the request that in the event they win the case, that the report be referred back to the Public Protector for further investigation. The DA says in its court papers that the purpose of Zuma’s application was to ensure that the issues raised in the Public Protector’s report, which implicate him and his friends, are never investigated unless they’re on his terms. The party says Zuma wants to pick the person conducting the investigation and decide the terms of reference, despite the patent conflict of interest and lack of perceived independence that would be involved. The DA says on these grounds, the court is obliged to dismiss the application in its entirety and order the president to implement the Public Protector’s remedial action as soon as possible. Zuma has until Tuesday to file a response to these submissions. COSTS OF STATE CAPTURE REVIEW APPLICATION The DA has asked the High Court to order Zuma to personally pick up the costs of his state capture review application, arguing it was brought for an ulterior purpose. The DA says at first, they only sought an ordinary costs order in the application, but after Zuma abandoned a key aspect of the relief he sought, it became clear the application was brought for an improper and unconstitutional purpose. It says this presents a clear conflict of interest because the president and his friends are implicated in the Public Protector’s report. The party further argues that because of the extensive delays and significant public interest - the court should compel the president to establish the commission of enquiry as soon as possible. (Edited by Zamangwane Shange)