
                                            The SACP held a briefing to share the outcomes of a special meeting held over the weekend after the sudden axing of general secretary Blade Nzimande.
                                         JOHANNESBURG - The South African Communist Party (SACP)  in KwaZulu-Natal has called on African National Congress Members of Parliament who want to stop Parliament's probe into state capture to be recalled. The communist party held a briefing in Durban on Monday afternoon to share the outcomes of a special meeting held over the weekend after the sudden axing of general secretary Blade Nzimande. The SACP says the latest Cabinet reshuffle was driven by personal differences between the president and Nzimande who has been critical of the influence of the Gupta family. KZN SACP secretary Themba Mthembu said: “We’re shocked to hear that some ANC MPs are fighting the ANC caucus on the investigation of state capture. These are the people who claim to be our representatives in the National Assembly but acting against the wishes and concern of the majority. These are the MPs who deserve to be recalled.” Mthembu said: “The challenges that the ANC is facing right now, need the SACP – together with the members of the ANC – to confront them.” 
                                                                  'WEAPON AGAINST NZIMANDE' The SACP in KwaZulu-Natal says the failure of President Jacob Zuma to release the Fees Must Fall report to the now axed Higher Education Minister Nzimande, shows that there has been a breakdown in their relationship. After President Zuma’s announcement of a Cabinet shake-up, the SACP immediately described the removal of Nzimande as a direct attack on the Communist Party. The KZN SACP’s Themba Mthembu says this does not mean there are plans to turn their back on the ANC-led alliance just yet. But Mthembu says there has always been an attempt to undermine SACP aligned ministers.  “The PEC has always suspected that the students uprising during the Fees Must Fall protests was used as a weapon to fight the authority of Comrade Blade as the head of the SACP.”