
                                            Mmusi Maimane led supporters to Saxonworld where placards reading 'Zuma’s capture site' were planted outside the family’s compound.
                                         JOHANNESBURG – Democratic Alliance (DA) leader Mmusi Maimane says his party didn’t march to the Gupta’s house to intimidate the family. Maimane has received criticism from various quarters for demonstrating at the home despite having previously spoken out against demonstrations at private homes. He led supporters to Saxonworld where placards reading “Zuma’s capture site” were planted outside the family’s compound. Maimane has previously described marches to private homes as wrong, dangerous and outrageous. But he has justified marching to the Gupta’s home.  He explains why the party decided on the march. “Rather than the [African National Congress] ANC constricting a monument for Jacob Zuma in the North West, called a Capture Site, this is, in fact, the real capture site.” Earlier this week, President Jacob Zuma unveiled a monument erected in his honour in the North West and the area is called the Groot Marico Capture Site. WATCH: Maimane: The Guptas must swap suits for orange overalls  At the same time, Maimane has called on South Africans to join his party to fight corruption in both the public and private sectors. “We are united against corruption in both public and private sector. And when those two interests collide, you end up with a country that loses out. We are here to demand freedom for all. South Africa deserves better, it deserves a better leadership and it is all that we are simply here to call for.” ‘YOU ARE GOING TO JAIL’ Maimane has defended his party's decision to take their march against state capture to the Gupta family's home, saying the compound is not just a house but the headquarters of corruption. In June last year, a group of Equal Education protesters marched to the house of the Western Cape Education MEC, calling for safer schools. At the time, Maimane tweeted: "I find these actions outrageous and dangerous. Whatever the issue, marching to someone’s house is wrong and dangerous.” On Thursday, he criticised the Gupta family and the ruling party. “Ministers line up here, the president lines up here. When the Guptas call, the ANC responds. We are here to say: you are going to jail.” The party also previously marched to President Jacob Zuma's homestead in Nkandla. (Edited by Leeto M Khoza)