
                                            The weather service issued an alert for the storms, warning they'd be accompanied by hail and strong winds.
                                         JOHANNESBURG - Paramedics have confirmed that one person has died and two others were hurt in what appears to have been a tornado in the Krugersdorp area. Netcare 911's Nick Dollman says the survivors have been taken to hospital. “Paramedics responded to reports of a tornado in the Krugersdorp area, they attended to three people at the scene and tragically one person has died. Two others we stabilised by paramedics and transported to hospital for further medical care.” Two people were hurt at a Krugersdorp mall when a section of the roof caved in over a grocery shop. Security guards evacuated the area around the collapse and paramedics transported the injured to hospital. ER24's Russel Meiring said: “Once inside the shops, paramedics found that some of the ceilings had collapsed. Two people were assessed by paramedics and found to have sustained minor to moderate injuries, fortunately, no serious to fatal injuries were found at the scene. Security at the mall helped to evacuate the scene while paramedics treated the two patients.” Thunderstorms in Gauteng on Monday afternoon have left some low-lying areas waterlogged. There were heavy delays on major routes as well as reports of damage to buildings. The Weather Service issued an alert for the storms, warning they'd be accompanied by hail and strong winds. Motorists were urged to drive with extreme caution with traffic backlogs. At the same time, Johannesburg emergency services responded to calls of flooding on Beyers Naude, areas in Fourways and on New Canada Road as well as low-lying bridges. Spokesperson Robert Mulaudzi said: “For any emergencies, we urge our residents to contact our emergency call centre on 011 375 5911. We will remain on high alert overnight.”    Meanwhile, one woman said urgent help was needed in Zandspruit where the storm has ripped off the roofs of people's homes. “Seven houses [were] completely demolished and a couple has been injured. I believe there are ambulances and police on sight and I’m sure there are other sorts of help needed.” At the same time, Ekurhuleni Emergency Services said teams were en route to Boksburg after reports of an explosion at a power substation. Pictures on social media show black smoke rising from the station.    Ekurhuleni Emergency Services spokesperson Peter Rudolph said: “We have received the calls and there is an area in Jet Park that is without power at this stage.” Rudolf says they've also received calls from residents reporting trees which have fallen over, blocking roads in the area. GALLERY: Massive hail storm hits Gauteng 