
                                            On Tuesday, KZN executive held a briefing to share their version of what happened during talks with the party’s top six officials led by President Jacob Zuma. 
                                         DURBAN – The so-called ANC Rebels say despite the national executive committee (NEC)’s approval that the KwaZulu-Natal leadership can appeal a court judgment they will oppose the process. On Tuesday, the KZN executive held a briefing to share their version of what happened during talks with the party’s top six officials led by President Jacob Zuma. The KZN ANC insists that appealing the judgment is about ensuring that both the provincial and national executive NEC's powers are not weakened by the courts. But the "rebels" say they will be seeking an execution order on an urgent basis and oppose this move. Spokesperson Sthembiso Mshengu says this won’t betray the negotiations around unity. “We don’t believe that the issues around unity and cohesion can be hamstrung by the appeal and counter-appeal.” The ANC NEC must make a decision on whether to disband the KZN collective soon. GIVEN BLESSINGS On Tuesday the ANC in KwaZulu-Natal said the NEC had given its blessing to appeal the Pietermaritzburg High Court judgment which declared the 2015 elective conference unlawful. The KZN ANC insists the decision to appeal the ruling is not a continuation of tensions between the two factions. Spokesperson Mdumiseni Ntuli said the judgment has the potential to weaken the authority of both the provincial and national executives. “This must be understood as an effort to avoid and avert a possibility of a judgment that would stay and affect the party in the future.” Provincial secretary Super Zuma said: “It can set a very wrong precedent, not only for KZN [but also] on the interpretation of the ANC constitution.” The KZN ANC would not be drawn on what solutions they proposed during the meeting, saying its role was to stand by the decisions taken by the organisation. The ANC in KZN said there was no discussion during its meeting with the party's top six about re-running the elective conference. Zuma said there was no need to discuss the re-run of the elective conference because they have not been disbanded. (Edited by Leeto M Khoza)