
                                            The defending champions could not live with a motivated Bok side who outplayed them in every aspect of the game.
                                         CAPE TOWN - The Springboks made a significant statement of intent as they saw off England 36-0 in convincing fashion in Paris to pick up their second World Cup victory. South Africa were polished and merciless, scoring 36 unanswered points. The defending champions could not live with a motivated Bok side who outplayed them in every aspect of the game. It was also the first time England failed to score a point in a World Cup match. South Africa maestro Fourie du Preez gave a scrumhalf clinic to help his side take a comfortable 20-0 lead into the half-time break. Du Preez's educated kicking game kept England on the backfoot in the first half after South Africa took the lead through Juan Smith's early try and Montgomery's conversion. Then youngster, Frans Steyn, landed a long-range penalty to make it 10-0. Montgomery added another three points to make it 13-0 just before the half time whistle. Shortly after that, JP Pietersen finished off a counter attack inspired by du Preez to stun the Webb Ellis holders.The second half began and it was more of the same, with Montgomery adding three points from a penalty. The fullback slotted his third penalty to add to his two conversions on 55 minutes. With England morale understandably low, the impressive Steyn offloaded to Du Preez who put Pietersen away for the second time and for his second try. Montgomery converted to make it 33-0 and keep his 100% conversion and penalty record in the match. Montgomery then slotted another penalty just before the full-time whistle and took his tally to 18 points, and another solid showing with the boot to add to his 29 points against Samoa. The Springboks are now odds on favourites to top Pool A after two imposing wins. They face Tonga and then the USA in their final pool stage matches. Talking points: • Fourie du Preez masterclass• South Africa lay down a marker at the World Cup Match 2 Pool A, Saint Denis: Springboks 36-0 England SA tries:SmithPietersen (2) Conversions:Montgomery 3/3 Penalties:Steyn 1/1Montgomery 4/4 Man of the Match:Fourie du Preez