
                                            Judge Billy Mothle ruled that the anti-apartheid activist was severely assaulted and tortured before being pushed from a window to his death in 1971. 
                                         PRETORIA - The High Court in Pretoria has ordered that the last security branch officer to see Ahmed Timol  alive be investigated for murder as an accessory after the fact and perjury. Judge Billy Mothle ruled that the anti-apartheid activist was severely assaulted and tortured before being pushed from a window to his death in 1971. The original inquest in 1972 endorsed the police’s version that Timol had committed suicide and absolved the officers involved in the murder. Mothle rejected the evidence of former security branch sergeant Jan Roderigues. “Rodrigues on his own version participated in the cover-up to conceal the crime of murder as an accessory after the fact and went on to commit perjury by presenting contradictory evidence before the 1972 and the 2017 inquest. He should accordingly be investigated with a view to his prosecution.” Mothle says the evidence reveals that Timol was tortured from the day he was arrested until he was murdered. The judge says the way his death was investigated reveals a clear cover-up by the security branch. COVER-UP The High Court has ruled that members of the security branch conspired to cover up their torture and ultimate murder of Timol in 1971. Mothle says the process to cover up the murder of Timol started shortly after the security branch members pushed his battered body out of a window. “The police on their own version removed the injured Timol from where he landed immediately after the fall without summoning medical evidence. Clearly in order to conceal the crime.” He says Sergeant Roderigues was party to blame for the cover-up. “He thereby prima facie, by his conduct, became and accessory after the fact of murder." The judge has ordered that Roderigues be investigated on charges of murder and perjury. WATCH: Court delivers findings on Ahmed Timol's death  #TimolInquest and thats it. 40 years after his death, the court finds Timol was tortured and murdered by Security Branch. BB  #TimolInquest Mothle: Roderigues assisted in the cover up as accessory after the fact. He should be investigated. BB  #TimolInquest Mothle: all the members involved in Timol’s arrest and integration are collectively responsible for the injuries he sustained.  WATCH: Salim Essop says Ahmed Timol would not commit suicide 