
                                            This was revealed by a lawyer representing the families of these patients and has been confirmed by social worker Daphney Ndhlovu. 
                                         JOHANNESBURG - It’s been revealed in the arbitration process into the Esidimeni tragedy  that some families were notified of their loved one’s deaths almost a year later. This was revealed by a lawyer representing the families of these patients and has been confirmed by social worker Daphney Ndhlovu. Ndhlovu works at the Cullinan Care Rehabilitation Centre, which was one of the health ombudsman’s most concerning facilities. One-hundred-and-forty-one patients died after being moved to unlawful NGOs by the Gauteng Health Department. Section 27's lawyer Nicky Stein, who represents the families of 55 people who died, has revealed how two patients died around July last year but their families were only notified about their deaths this February. Stein says in one case, officials themselves did not know where the patient was, until finally eight months later, social workers realised the patient had died and was in a state mortuary. Ndhlovu conceded to these shocking details. Arbitration head Dikgang Moseneke asked: “On the facts here that you visited the family in February 2017 and he died in July 2016." Ndhlovu responded: “In this case it is correct. I remember telling that the patient passed on long time ago (sic). ” As this was being discussed, a family member whose father died but his family was not told for months, walked out of the room crying. [WATCH] #LifeEsidimeni Justice Moseneke asks Ndhlovu what happened to patients & why they died in such large numbers in a short period. MR pic.twitter.com/VHa1ZXItHT  #LifeEsidimeni Ndhlovu: we do have a man who died in May/June 2016, but is still in mortuary. We can’t find family & he didn’t have ID. MR  Ndhlovu has told the Esidimeni hearings that many of the patients who were hastily moved to the NGO where she works did not fit the necessary criteria. She says this means some of the patients from Esidimeni were not supposed to be housed at the NGO to begin with. “According to the initial agreement, the CEO informed us there is going to be a multi-disciplinary team from Cullinan to Life Esidimeni to select the patients according to the criteria of our institution. But that has never happened.” #LifeEsidimeni Ndhlovu: we do have a man who died in May/June 2016, but is still in mortuary. We can’t find family & he didn’t have ID. MR  #LifeEsidimeni Ndhlovu: we do have a man who died in May/June 2016, but is still in mortuary. We can’t find family & he didn’t have ID. MR 