
                                            Lindiwe Sisulu has offered to make public her financial records to show there isn't undue influence on her ambitions to lead the governing party.
                                         JOHANNESBURG – African National Congress (ANC) presidential hopeful Lindiwe Sisulu has offered to make public her financial records to show there isn't undue influence on her ambitions to lead the governing party. Sisulu says money is driving people to corruption in the state and that the ANC will never self-correct if people in the organisation are still selling themselves for financial gain. The Human Settlements Minister was speaking to Karima Brown during 702’s Townhall Meeting on Wednesday night. “I’d like to give you all my account numbers. I’d like to give you the constituency fund that we use and we can send not KPMG but any auditor there. Every penny is accounted for from where it comes from.” WATCH: Lindiwe Sisulu in conversation with Karima Brown  At the same time, Sisulu has denied that the uMkhonto weSizwe Military Veterans Association (MKMVA) is divided but claims the organisation is being used for ulterior motives. Sisulu, who previously served as defence force and military veterans minister, has praised the MKMVA for supporting veterans but admits that not all its members have received compensation. She says the association is not necessarily the problem. “I think there is a section of uMkhonto we Sizwe that is using the institution of being MK for other reasons other than making sure that we can provide for the welfare of all MK soldiers.” Sisulu says the association’s mandate is clear. “I do know that the reason why we have MKMVA is to look after our soldiers and therefore we would need to be as broad and as comprehensive as possible. “Discussions were held with MKMVA and we were assured of that, if I were in MKMVA or leading it, I would want to make sure that our programmes are as inclusive as possible.” (Edited by Leeto M Khoza)