Doctor Antonel Olckers last week testified that most of the results of the DNA tests conducted by a State forensic expert were invalid. CAPE TOWN - In the Henri van Breda murder trial, the State has been scrutinising the CV of a DNA expert testifying for the defense. Doctor Antonel Olckers last week testified that most of the results of the DNA tests conducted by a State forensic expert were invalid. Van Breda is accused of axing his parents and brother to death at the family's Stellenbosch home in early 2015. He's also facing an attempted murder charge after his sister survived. Prosecutor Susan Galloway has delved into Doctor Olckers’ CV, pointing out the fact that she has purely academic experience. Olckers runs a consultation and training company called DNAbiotec that trains companies on DNA testing. In this case, the defense hired Olckers to test the scientific validity of the police forensic specialist's results, which she claims was largely invalid. Olckers tested the forensic science laboratory where Sharlene Otto conducted the tests against standard operating procedures and international organisation for standardisation guidelines. Galloway has asked Olckers whether she has ever worked in a forensic laboratory, to which she's replied no. JUDGE’S ATTITUDE The family axe murder accused has complained about Judge Siraj Desai's attitude towards the defense's witness.Defense Advocate Pieter Botha has told the court his client is concerned about the demeanor of Judge Desai towards their witness, Olckers. Botha says van Breda is concerned about Desai's tone of voice, which he says seems impatient. Desai has questioned why the accused is bringing this up in the middle of the trial and while he has admitted he may be impatient, he has added he has the right to ask questions to speed up a line of questioning. When Desai asked whether van Breda wants him recused from the case, Botha answered no - he merely wanted to raise his concern that the judge appears to be treating the defense's witness differently compared to the State’s. Desai says he has noted the concern.