
                                            'Eyewitness News' revealed on Monday that a South African Sports Confederation and Olympic Committee clothing supplier allegedly paid for at least half of the trip’s expenses. 
                                         PRETORIA - Police Minister Fikile Mbalula’s office has issued a statement, claiming the minister’s family paid for his Dubai holiday. Eyewitness News (EWN) revealed on Monday that a South African Sports Confederation and Olympic Committee (Sascoc) clothing supplier allegedly paid for at least half of the trip’s expenses. Sedgars Sports has denied bankrolling the minister, but EWN has seen evidence suggesting otherwise. Mbalula did not receive a sponsorship for his family holiday to Dubai, nor were there any gratuities or gifts received for the trip. The ministry says Mbalula used what was termed "family financial resources", but the details are completely confidential and protected. Mbalula says the allegations were orchestrated to impugn his integrity and deliberately cause him and his family harm. The minister says he wanted to take the public into his confidence with these disclosures. EWN has been asking Mbalula questions about the trip since July, but he had flatly refused to clarify any matter, claiming his privacy is being infringed. When approached again last month, he neither confirmed nor denied Sedgars paid for the trip, but the minister said there was nothing untoward about the vacation and who paid for it. He reiterated that it was private. He also told EWN he reserves the right to protect his family's privacy from what he described as “journalistic gymnastics”. ETHICS CODE Mbalula says his Dubai holiday has not breached Parliament’s ethics codes because it was paid for by his family. The minister has accused the media of trampling on his rights. Mbalula believes the report is part of a plan to attack his integrity and cause harm to his family. He adds that the holiday was not a sponsorship, and therefore there was no conflict of interest arising out of the trip abroad. But EWN has seen evidence that the holiday was hastily booked on the 23 December, just four days before his departure date. #MbalulaDubai full statement statement. BB pic.twitter.com/AmlI1RHvVm  PROOF  EWN has seen records which show a company called Reimon Uniforms - which linked to Sedgars Sport - paid R300,000 to a travel agent to pay for Mbalula's Dubai trip. It's understood the remainder of the R680,000 expense was paid for in cash by a Sedgars employee. Sedgars' director Yusuf Dockrat denied paying for the holiday and refused to answer further questions when evidence showing a link to Sedgars was put to him. Two independent sources have confirmed that banking records show Reimon Uniforms paid a travel agent for the holiday. Company records show several links between Reimon and Sedgars. DA DEMANDS INVESTIGATION  Meanwhile, the Democratic Alliance (DA) is demanding an investigation into the minister’s family holiday to Dubai. DA chief whip John Steenhuisen says it’s concerning. “It’s concerning because the money was paid. There’s very likely a conflict of interest with the Minister of Sport receiving a gift of this nature from a company that was doing business with Sascoc, which is accountable to the minister.”