
                                            The SIU says it has already completed an initial probe into corruption allegations but is now waiting on approval from the President to start a full investigation.
                                         JOHANNESBURG – The Special Investigating Unit (SIU) says it’s eager to commence with its investigation into Eskom, saying it has signed an agreement to ensure the approval of the probe is expedited. The SIU says it has already completed an initial probe into corruption allegations but is now waiting on approval from the president to start a full investigation. Eskom’s CFO Anoj Singh has been suspended and three other executives are facing suspension with regards to their role in the payments made to Gupta-linked company Trillian. The SIU says its team is ready to start with the investigation into Eskom but there is a process that needs to be followed. First, it had to assess information obtained from Public Enterprises and then submit a motivation for a proclamation which has now been sent to the Justice Department, then it will require approval from the Presidency. The SIU’s Nazreen Pandor says they are expecting this process to be completed within the next few weeks. “We entered into a memorandum of understanding to ensure that turnaround times are significantly reduced. We’re talking weeks and not months.” Pandor said they have met with the Public Enterprises Department and now have all the documentation. “To assess the documentation that will assist in drafting the motivation for the proclamation. This has already been done and the motivation for the proclamation has been submitted to the Department of Justice and thereafter it will be forwarded to the Presidency.” At the same time, Minister Lynne Brown is still due to comment on the details of Eskom’s internal report about its dealings with Trillian. Singh and at least three others have been seriously implicated by ignoring advice four times about entering into the controversial contract with McKinsey and paying Trillian directly. Meanwhile, Brown is still due to comment on the damning evidence contained in Eskom’s internal report, which details the extent to which these individuals went to ensure Gupta-linked company Trillian was paid for little or no work. (Edited by Leeto M Khoza)