
                                            The DA placed Patricia De Lille and JP Smith on special leave, meaning neither of them will be able to attend party caucus meetings or interact with caucus members.
                                         CAPE TOWN – The African National Congress (ANC) says a public spat between Cape Town Mayor Patricia de Lille and Mayoral Committee Member JP Smith is a clear indication of factionalism in the Democratic Alliance (DA). Tensions boiled over when Smith questioned the shutting down of the City of Cape Town’s Special Investigating Unit. Alleged irregularities around renovations to De Lille’s private home have only compounded the matter. Smith believes this could be linked to alleged irregularities with upgrades to De Lille’s house. De Lille is considering legal action against Smith. Both have since been placed on special leave. The ANC’s Xolani Sotashe believes the DA is trying to get rid of De Lille. “The DA has got a history of using people, so there’s no difference with De Lille. They lured her to come and join the DA and they knew what they wanted to achieve, so De Lille is actually a casualty of her own making.” A sub-committee hearing investigating a feud between De Lille and Smith is set to start on Tuesday. The DA leader Mmusi Maimane met with the pair on Monday night following a heated public exchange between them. The DA’s federal executive has set up a special sub-committee to investigate the strained relationship between the two. The party’s chief whip John Steenhuisen will be chairing the committee. In a statement released earlier, the DA explains De Lille and Smith will be unable to attend party caucus meetings or interact with caucus members. It doesn’t affect their candidacy for provincial elected positions, nor does it affect their work in government. They have also been instructed not to speak to the media. On Monday night, De Lille issued a statement saying she sought legal advice regarding Smith and some internal investigations unit members who have been making malicious and defamatory remarks against her. QUESTIONS The ANC has questioned whether former DA leader Helen Zille is the catalyst behind the spat between De Lille and JP Smith. In response to the public spat between the two, the ANC in the province said it wants to know what role Zille is playing. The official opposition in the Western Cape believes the fight between the De Lille and Smith, who they refer to as Zille's "minion", is but a symptom of the election race. The DA is holding a provincial congress to elect new leadership this coming weekend and Smith is standing for a senior position within the party. The ANC believes it's now an all-out war between De Lille and what it refers to as "Zille’s men". The party adds that Maimane was handpicked by Zille and has now been forced to act against De Lille. Smith has told Eyewitness News that party leadership has ordered him not to comment on the matter. (Edited by Leeto M Khoza)