
                                            Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa says just by merely educating people potential and capability are unlocked. 
                                         JOHANNESBURG – Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa says the real work in turning around South Africa’s sinking economy lies in skills development. Ramaphosa says there needs to be a skills acquisition revolution. The deputy president was speaking on Saturday at the North-west University’s Potchefstroom campus. During his address, the deputy president expressed his concern about the recent cabinet reshuffle and the corruption which he says continues to permeate within state-owned institutions. Ramaphosa says just by merely educating people potential and capability are unlocked. He says with education, people are better focused and the economy starts to move forward. “It has to be our challenge collectively and this is where active citizenry come into play. So we all have a role to play in order for South African to move forward. “We should never be pointing a finger, as you point a finger, remember that the other three fingers are pointing at you.” Ramaphosa says corruption within state-owned entities also needs to be rooted out admitting there’s been very little transformation. SA KNOWN FOR RAMPANT CORRUPTION Ramaphosa said state capture is a matter of serious concern and the most worrying issue is that South Africa is now known for being the capital of corruption. The deputy president touched on a number of issues including the growth of the economy, skills development, land distribution and state capture. Ramaphosa said South Africa is no longer a rainbow nation but a country that’s been captured by certain interests. “We can’t have a country where outside countries start investigations through their own agencies investigating this but we don’t, the Hawks, the NPA must now get down to work.” He said a commission of inquiry must be appointed with immediate effect. “Those who have stolen the money must return it, we want our money back.” However, Ramaphosa said support for the African National Congress remains strong. (Edited by Leeto M Khoza)