
                                            This raises serious questions about how the criminal cases emanating from the tragedy will be affected.
                                         JOHANNESBURG - It has emerged that post-mortems were only conducted on 26 of the 141 patients who died in the Esidimeni tragedy. This was revealed by the Gauteng Health Department’s acting head of department Doctor Ernest Kenoshi during his testimony in the arbitration process in Parktown on Friday. It’s raised serious questions about how the criminal cases will be affected. Kenoshi says of the 26 post-mortems, the majority were conducted after the Health Ombudsman’s report was released. “Indeed 26 post-mortems have been performed. Their reports are with the SAPS.” Retired deputy chief justice Dikgang Moseneke then asked him about the criminal cases against implicated parties and how these cases will continue without the post-mortems. “Does that mean they were buried without any pathological examinations?” Kenoshi replied in the affirmative, adding that not all cases required post-mortems and that some family members opted not to have these examinations because they wanted to bury their loved ones at certain times. OWNER OF NGO SIGNED DEATH CERTIFICATES Meanwhile, it’s been revealed that the owner of an NGO where the majority of psychiatric patients died signed a number of death certificates posing as a family member. Precious Angels in Atteridgeville in Pretoria has been identified as one of the NGOs where the majority of the patients lost their lives. It’s been described by the Health Ministry’s director general Precious Matsoso as one of the most worrying because when she visited the premises, she found it had been converted into student accommodation. Now it’s been revealed by Section 27’s lawyer Adila Hassim, who represents the families of 55 people who died, that the owner of this NGO even signed death certificates without authorisation. “Have you been able to establish why she signed as a member of the family?” Kenoshi says this is also being investigated. “No, I wouldn’t know why she signed last year when these three were buried.”