
                                            The movement was started in Cape Town by a group called Enough is Enough after the murder of farmer Joubert Conradie on his farm earlier this month.
                                         JOHANNESBURG - The R59 highway in Vereeniging has been blocked with trucks and cars in support of the Black Monday campaign to highlight the high number of farm murders. The movement was started in Cape Town by a group called Enough is Enough after the murder of farmer Joubert Conradie on his farm earlier this month. According to motorists, supporters dressed in black are causing major traffic congestion in the Vereeniging area. Meanwhile, AfriForum’s Ernst Routs says that they are supporting a meeting in Pretoria but the organisation is not organising the protests. Civil society action against the killing of farmers will start on Monday in parts of the country.  According to AfriForum, there have been 70 fatal attacks on farmers since January.  Police Minister Fikile Mbalula has warned protesters to be peaceful, adding that action will be taken against those who threatened to blockade roads with trucks and tractors.     PROTESTS SPREADING The Black Monday protest against farm killings has now spread to the Krugersdorp area west of Johannesburg. Midvaal Mayor Bongani Baloyi has received a memorandum from the protesters and officials are now trying to clear the road. The Midvaal mayor says that his priority is to clear the road and not allow the protest to hinder economic development in the area. “It’s an issue across South Africa as well. I think our local farmers are starting to feel it as well and also calling on police to do their role in trying to stop these killings in South Africa.” Motorists say that more protests and go slows have started in other parts of the province. Motorists say that there has been major congestion on the N14 going to Pretoria and Ontdekkers Road heading towards town is also congested. (Edited by Leeto M Khoza)