
                                            Du Preez will be remembered as a scrumhalf who had every attribute necessary to become world class. 
                                         CAPE TOWN – Springbok maestro Fourie du Preez confirmed his status as one of the finest scrum-halves to ever play the game at the Rugby World Cup in 2007. He gave a masterclass in the pool stage match against England, with his performance being key in the 36-0 thumping of the defending champions. He says that the match instilled the belief that they could win the tournament. "It was a four-year journey for us, it got momentum when we beat England 36-0. Personally, as well, it was an unbelievable day for myself and the team." Du Preez will be remembered as a scrumhalf who had every attribute necessary to become world class. He made special mention of Eddie Jones' impact on his career. "Just working with Eddie Jones in that last few weeks was unbelievable and also helped me through the rest of my career." #RWC10 @Springboks no.9 Fourie du Preez talks about his Rugby World Cup experience & the memorable 36-0 win.More: https://t.co/zbgyHifbZX pic.twitter.com/ZRleJ83iIV  The Springbok legend reflected on winning the tournament and being part of a special squad that won the William Webb Ellis trophy for the second time. "Playing in the 2007 Rugby World Cup was an unbelievable experience and obviously winning it was a dream come true. It was just a massive honour to be a part of that team. We had unbelievable management team and an unbelievable team of players. It is a day, a tournament and four years I will never forget." Du Preez went on to compete in both the 2011 and 2015 World Cup editions, he won numerous awards and trophies during his playing days. He was named the SA Rugby Player of the Year twice (2006, 2009) and was capped 76 times in an international career spanning a just over a decade. All week you can visit our page on www.ewn.co.za to read and hear from players and staff involved and also share your special memories of the Rugby World Cup with us via Facebook, Twitter and Instagram as we look back at the famous 2007 win.