
                                            Going into the high-profile encounter, Juergen Klopp’s side sits seventh in the table following three wins from seven league games.
                                         LONDON - Liverpool must put in a solid all-round performance by augmenting dominant possession with some clinical finishing to beat Manchester United at Anfield, midfielder Emre Can said ahead of Saturday’s Premier League clash. Going into the high-profile encounter, Juergen Klopp’s side sits seventh in the table following three wins from seven league games, while United trail leaders Manchester City on goal difference after recording six wins and a draw. A leaky defence and a failure to convert their goal-scoring opportunities have hindered the Merseyside club but Can believes Liverpool can rise to the occasion and regain some momentum with a win in their first home game since mid-September. “It will be a very, very tough game because Manchester United have done very well this season so far. But we know we are strong too and we are really looking forward to the game,” Can told Liverpool’s official website.  “We have to be hard in the tackles, we have to try to dominate the game and score the goals when we create chances. We will see what happens. “It’s always special to play at Anfield and now against Man United... We are really excited and looking forward to the game and to play at Anfield again.” Liverpool’s poor finishing has led them to one win in their last seven games across all competitions and Can is well aware that positive results will only come if the side can improve their goal-scoring record. “The last few weeks before the international break were not the best for us because we didn’t get the results we wanted. But it was not that bad -- we played good football and in most of the games we dominated but couldn’t score,” Can added. “But we have to all stick together and try to give our best on the pitch -- then we will come back to winning ways. “We try, we play well and we create very good chances. We have to score the goals and if we do, we’ll be back on track.” The sides drew both fixtures last season but will be missing key players on Saturday, with United unable to call on injured midfielders Paul Pogba and Marouane Fellaini and Liverpool without forward Sadio Mane, who was hurt on international duty.