
                                            Political analysts say the move has nothing to do with making government more efficient.
                                         JOHANNESBURG - As South Africans digest President Jacob Zuma's recent changes to his Cabinet, political analysts say that he made the changes to stamp his authority and divide the South African Communist Party (SACP). The president announced changes to his Cabinet on Tuesday, which included the axing of Blade Nzimande as Higher Education Minister. Samadoda Fikeni says that these changes represent three scenarios. “This represents the end of an era of consultation within the top ANC leadership. It is also about the political positioning to punish each political opponent such as Blade Nzimande being vocal on removing the president and in so doing, also trying to divide the SACP.” Meanwhile, Zwelethu Jolobe says that the president uses Cabinet reshuffles to resolve differences, but he says that the move has nothing to do with making government more efficient. “There aren’t the kind of long-term implications so it’s not done with the interest of will these new ministers be able to perform better.” WATCH: SACP: Zuma has gone to war with us  DECLARATION OF WAR On Tuesday, the SACP said Zuma’s latest reshuffle is a clear declaration of war against the party. SACP's Solly Mapaila says they believe Zuma has specifically targeted Nzimande. The Higher Education and Training Minister was fired and replaced by Ayanda Dlodlo, whose communications portfolio now goes to Mmamoloko Kubayi. “Our view is that this is not a reshuffle but a targeted removal of Comrade Nzimande as a direct attack on the SACP. Ordinarily, the aim of any Cabinet reshuffle must be to strengthen the capacity of the state, but in this case, that’s not the intention, especially with the retention of so many deadwood and compromised individuals in the Cabinet.” He said Zuma needs to re-think his strategy. “If the president thinks that by removing Dr Nzimande from the Cabinet he will silence the SACP from the leading role it has played in exposing and confronting state capture, he is glaringly mistaken.” After Tuesday morning’s announcement of a Cabinet reshuffle, the SACP warned the move places the tripartite alliance on “the brink of destruction”. “Zuma’s removal of Dr Nzimande from the Cabinet without consultation with the alliance is nothing but a response to the popular call, led by the SACP and Congress of South African Trade Unions, for the president to resign.” 
                                                                  Additional reporting by Katleho Sekhotho. (Edited by Winnie Theletsane)