The 62-year-old producer feels he is in ‘a waking nightmare’ after his brother Harvey was accused of sexually harassing a number of women over the years. Bob Weinstein feels he is in “a waking nightmare” after his brother Harvey was accused of sexually harassing a number of women over the years. The 62-year-old producer stood firm as he criticised his older sibling for the “inexcusable sickness” and insisted he wouldn’t be fighting the “indefensible”. He said: “I find myself in a waking nightmare. My brother has caused unconscionable suffering. As a father of three girls I say this with every bone in my body - I am heartbroken for the women that he has harmed. I’m a fighter. For my entire adult life, I fought for the films I want to see the light of day. I have fought for my employees, who have dedicated their lives to achieving the vision of this company that me and my brother founded. But I cannot fight what is indefensible. “The members of the board, including myself, did not know the extent of my brother’s actions. I know him on a personal level better than anyone. It’s hard to describe how I feel that he took out the emptiness inside of him in so many sick and depraved ways. It’s a sickness but not a sickness that is excusable. It’s a sickness that’s inexcusable. And I, as a brother, understood and was aware as a family member, that my brother needed help and that something was wrong.” And Bob doesn’t feel his brother has an “ounce of remorse” for his actions. He added to the Hollywood Reporter: “I was also the object of a lot of his verbal abuse - at one time physical abuse. And I am not looking for one bit of sympathy from anyone. I do not put myself in the category at all of those women that he hurt. But it’s a complicated situation when it’s your brother doing the abusing to you as well. I saw it and I asked him to get help for many years. And that’s the truth. He avoided getting the help. We begged him. “This hurts, but I don’t feel an ounce of remorse coming from him, and that kills me too. When I heard his written, lame excuse ... Not an excuse. When I heard his admission of feeling remorse for the victims and then him cavalierly, almost crazily saying he was going to go out and take on the NRA, it was so disturbing to me. It was utter insanity. My daughters all felt sick hearing this because we understood he felt nothing. I don’t feel he feels anything to this day. I don’t.” Meanwhile, Eva Green’s mother, French actress Marlene Jobert, has alleged that her daughter was offered a jump start in Hollywood by the shamed producer if she agreed to certain “conditions” too. She revealed: “My daughter Eva was the victim of this horrible man. At the time, I was truly horrified, so scandalised that I wanted to do something but my daughter said, ‘Absolutely not! You do not know the evil he is capable of.’ “Under the pretext of a professional appointment, he’d given her a script with a beautiful key role it. And as his office was also in his hotel suite, they’d go up and then ... He promised her, like the others that he’d favourise their careers in exchange for sexual favours.” Marlene also alleged that Harvey “threatened to destroy Eva professionally” because she had rejected him. She added to Europe 1 radio: “Green managed to escape him but he threatened to destroy her professionally. “Because if the ‘big pig’ had been outed by a victim, for revenge he would forbid [directors] to select them. That’s a brutal reaction to take on a young actress because it was putting themselves in danger of being scratched off casting lists.” Since the allegations broke, Harvey has been sacked by his own firm, The Weinstein Company, and his wife of 10 years, Georgina Chapman - who is the mother of two of his children, India, seven, and Dashiell, four - has announced she is leaving him. Harvey - who has denied many of the allegations - is now reportedly set to enter rehab to get the “help” he needs.