
                                            The 65-year-old film producer has admitted to having behaved inappropriately with some of his female colleagues in the past.
                                         LOS ANGELES – Hollywood movie producer Harvey Weinstein has said sorry to former colleagues after a newspaper published a series of sexual harassment allegations against him.  The 65-year-old film producer - who has previously worked on a number of Oscar-winning movies, such as Shakespeare in Love and The King’s Speech - has admitted to having behaved inappropriately with some of his female colleagues in the past and has apologised for causing them “pain”. In a statement, Weinstein said: “I appreciate the way I’ve behaved with colleagues in the past has caused a lot of pain, and I sincerely apologise for it.” However, the Hollywood powerhouse has denied the accusation made in the New York Times newspaper that he harassed female employees over nearly 30 years. Earlier, the newspaper had claimed that Weinstein - who has been married to London-born fashion designer Georgina Chapman since 2007 - had reached at least eight settlements with women. Weinstein also announced he is set to take a leave of absence from his film production company, revealing that he is hiring therapists in a bid to conquer his “demons”. He explained: “My journey now will be to learn about myself and conquer my demons. I so respect all women and regret what happened.” Weinstein - who has children Dashiell, four, and India, seven, with his current wife, as well as Ruth, 14, Emma, 19, and Lily, 22, with his ex-wife Eve Chilton - also pledged to make amends for his past mistakes. He said: “I cannot be more remorseful about the people I hurt and I plan to do right by all of them.” In a separate statement, Lisa Bloom, who is the lawyer of the Miramax and Weinstein Company co-founder, denied many of the accusations made against her client, describing them as “patently false”. She said, too, that she’d told Weinstein that some of his conduct “can be perceived as inappropriate, even intimidating”. Bloom added: “He has acknowledged mistakes he has made. He is reading books and going to therapy. He is an old dinosaur learning new ways.”